 Mthatha - A 32-year-old male suspect is expected to appear at the Lusikisiki Magistrate's Court on Friday facing a charge of burglary and theft. "Stabilisation Operational Team deployed at Khanyayo, Flagstaff as part of intervention by Lieutenant Gen Ntshinga to rid of crime in the  rural towns of Mthatha, Qumbu, Ngcobo, Mt Frere received intelligence driven information from PSJ Crime Intelligence Unit about a man suspected for burglary and theft of school property at Cuthwini locality, Lombasi A/A," described police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "A search and seizure operation were conducted and the following property were recovered 10 computers, five brooms and five mops were recovered." Capt Tonjeni said that in another incident, the team deployed at Idutywa successfully followed up information of unlawful possession of firearm at JPO Skwatta Camp in Dutywa on Sunday, at about 20h00. "A 34-year-old unlawful possession of prohibited firearm and ammunition after one rusty shotgun with brown cocking grip four shotgun rounds were recovered." He added that the team deployed at Idutywa also successfully followed up information of armed robbery suspects that robbed a business in Ngcobo then fled towards Dutywa on Sunday at about 19h50. "Police arrested male suspects aged 29, 30 and 35 years old and charged them for unlawful possession of prohibited firearm and ammunition," Capt Tonjeni said. "An armed robbery case was opened at Ngcobo where one black Norinco Star 9mm with three 9mm rounds." He said that one blue Toyota Avanza and R450 in cash was confiscated. "The suspects will appear in Dutywa Magistrate's Court on Tuesday." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, aplauded the arrest and encouraged members to work with other components to yield greater results. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 