 Port Elizabeth - The Mount Road SAPS Cluster Detective Trio Task team are on the hunt for three suspects involved in a murder and robbery case that was allegedly committed on Thursday morning in Rocklands. "It is alleged that at about 04:00, Gregory Hough (57) returned to his house in Bloza township, Elandsriver, Rocklands, after withdrawing money from a nearby garage," said police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse van Rensburg. "Shortly after he returned home, there was a knock on the back door, and when Hough enquired who it was, the person claimed that they were from the police. The suspects then kicked open the door and threatened Hough and his family with a firearm. "They demanded the money. A scuffle ensued between Hough and the suspects and a shot was fired injuring him in the leg. "Hough ran into his bedroom where he closed the door. He passed away at the scene." Capt Janse van Rensburg said that the suspects left the house and got into an unknown vehicle and fled. "At this stage it is unclear whether any money was taken. According to the family, Hough was a ‘skopper’ (loan shark). "Police are warning people operating as ‘skoppers’ that this is illegal while at the same time would like to urge stokvel clubs to take the necessary precautions in safeguarding their money," she added. "During this time of the year, thousands of rands are withdrawn to be paid out to club members. Police are advising that instead of withdrawing such large amounts of cash, arrange for the club’s pay out to be electronically transferred into each club member’s personal account or accounts of their choice. In so doing, the physical handling of huge amounts of cash can be avoided. "This will also deter criminals who are aware of such stokvels. Always be vigilant of your surroundings." She added that a case of robbery and murder is being investigated by SAPS Kabega Park members. "Anyone who can assist the investigation officer with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects can contact Kabega Park on 041 3976800." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 