 Port Elizabeth - Police in Bethelsdorp, Port Elizabeth, have appealed to the public for assistance with information that can help them solve two fatal shootings that happened on Saturday. According to police information, the wanted suspect allegedly pursued after his victim and shot him several times late on Saturday afternoon. "It is alleged that at about 17:15, Nealon Warricker (26) was walking in Coetzee Street in Salt Lake with two friends when four males approached from the opposite direction," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Warricker and his friends started running after seeing a firearm in the suspect’s hand. The suspect chased after Waricker and fired at him. "He sustained several gunshot wounds and died at the scene. "The other two did not sustain any injuries." Col Naidu said that the motive and suspect at this stage. "A case of murder is under investigation." In another unrelated incident, a 23-year-old male was fatally wounded when an unknown male fired through an open door of his shack. "It is alleged that at about 21:45 on Saturday, Virgil Fortuin was in his shack at Danny Jordaan informal settlement Bloemendal watching TV with his girlfriend," Col Naidu said. "The front door was ajar and the security gate was locked. Someone from outside called him but he didn’t’ go outside. "As he stood up, several shots were fired through the door. "He sustained two gunshot wounds to his body and died on the scene." Col Naidu said that the motive and suspect is unknown and a case of murder is also under investigation. Bethelsdorp police are appealing to anyone who can assist in providing any information relating to these murders is asked to contact D/Lt Col Alan Stuurman at SAPS Bethesldorp on 041 404 3005 or Crime Stop 08600 10111 or the nearest police station. "All information is strictly confidential." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 