 Bhisho - Emergency Medical Services workers are staying home on leave, but are still being paid overtime, because their names appear on the overtime roster for the month, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape claimed on Tuesday. "This shocking revelation has been made by dedicated EMS workers, who are fed up with working their full quota of excess hours, while watching colleagues who sit at home and earn the same overtime hours while doing nothing. This amounts to looting of the public purse," said Jane Cowley (MPL), DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Health. "It is believed that more than R5,5 million has been paid out for excess hours rostered between December 2018 and May 2019, whether those hours were worked or not. "Managers have watched with frustration as productivity within the EMS sector has dwindled and absenteeism has increased." Cowley said that last year, the Director of EMS Services released a circular stating that with effect from the 1st of December 2018, all excess hours would be calculated based on actual hours worked in excess of 160 hours per month. "This was in line with the Remuneration and Working Hours Policy signed by the MEC for Health, which been discussed and accepted at the Eastern Cape Chamber meetings." Read the circular HERE. She said that, however, on the 7th of August this year, the Superintendent General of the Department of Health released a memorandum stating the above circular be withdrawn with immediate effect, and that the Department would revert to paying excess hours based on rostered time. Read the Memorundum HERE. "The rostered hours system does not comply with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act or with public service policies. "I have written to the MEC for Health, Sindiswa Gomba, to urge her to reverse the decision by the Superintendent General with immediate effect and halt any further payments of excess hours rostered that were not actually worked," Cowley said. "In a province which is currently facing severe financial challenges, this wasteful expenditure cannot be tolerated and the implementor of this foolhardy system should face serious consequences. We need to prioritise the needs of patients. "It seems that where the ANC governs, laws are made to be disrespected and broken, particularly where money is to be made. Where the DA governs, EMS payments are compliant with the laws and acts of our country which govern public services and remuneration is based on excess hours worked." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 