 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Director for Safety and Security, Adv Keith Meyer, said although his team will be on alert following a notification of showers and thunderstorms by the South African Weather Services, Nelson Mandela Bay is likely not be severely impacted. “We understand there are concerns from residents regarding the weather outlook until Sunday. However, I can assure residents that the Safety and Security Directorate, that includes Disaster Management, are ready for any eventualities. "We will be working closely with the South African Weather Services to stay abreast of changing weather patterns. “If the need arise, a Joint Operations Centre – consisting of all major roleplayers – will be set up to manage developments,” Meyer said. “Showers and thunderstorms are expected across the province until Sunday, with severe thunderstorms associated with strong winds and excessive lightning expected over the western and north eastern parts, but over  the eastern parts on Wednesday," he added. "The expected impact of these severe thunderstorms remain minimal at this point but will be monitored for possible amendments." In addition, localized flooding is expected along the South Coast between Plettenberg Bay and Cape St Francis from Tuesday evening, going into Wednesday, when heavy rain exceeding 50mm is expected. "Therefore an impact based warning will be issued for the flooding along these areas along the South Coast. Subsequently, gale force W'ly winds are expected along the South Coast on Wednesday, possibly enhancing the wave heights along the coast. At this point no impact based warnings have been issued in line with possible storm surges as not all parameters are favourable at this point.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  