 Port Elizabeth - After the delayed announcement of the petrol price for November 2019 - there is some good news. As generally predicted the official November 2019 petrol price will see motorists smiling at the pumps from Wednesday. While the Department of Energy announced only a slight drop in petrol and diesel prices for November - it is still reason to cheer. South Africa's petrol and diesel prices are determined monthly and for most of 2019, there had been increases in fuel prices. Fears were that after petrol and diesel prices increased in October, they would increase for the ninth straight month in November 2019. Early in October month, the Automotive Association of South Africa in its petrol price prediction for November 2019 did say some motorists will see an increase on their fuel while others will enjoy a drop in prices. The prediction came true as motorists will pay slightly less at the fuel pumps from Wednesday. According to the Department of Energy, the official November 2019 fuel prices are as follows: The Energy Department said the main reason for the November 2019 petrol and diesel price decrease is lower oil prices on the international as seen throughout October. "The Rand depreciated against the US Dollar during the period under review, on average, when compared to the previous period," it added. "The average Rand/US Dollar exchange rate for the period 27 September 2019 to 31 October 2019 was 14.9293 compared to 14.8432 during the previous period. "This led to a higher contribution to the Basic Fuel Prices on petrol, diesel and illuminating paraffin by 4.08 c/l, 4.33 c/l and 4.34 c/l respectively." The Department also said in line with the Self-Adjusting Slate Levy Mechanism Rules, the Slate levy on petrol and diesel will remain at 0.00 c/l with effect from 06 November 2019. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 