 Port Elizabeth - Could we see a cut in the petrol price for December 2019? No, says the AA. Here is the predicted petrol price for December 2019. On Friday, the association shared some bad news for petrol users planning their December holidays as the price of petrol is expected to go up. South Africa's petrol and diesel are determined monthly and for most of 2019, there has been increases in fuel prices. October's mixed fuel price picture has continued into November, with petrol showing an increase and other fuels dropping. This is according to the Automobile Association (AA), which was commenting on unaudited mid-month fuel price data released by the Central Energy Fund. The Association says the underlying fundamentals have been treading water in the first half of November 2019. This has given rise to a predicted increase of 11 cents a litre for 95 octane petrol, and a seven-cent rise for 93 octane petrol. Diesel is looking at a decrease, with current data showing an 18-cent decrease while illuminating paraffin is set to drop by 21 cents. "The average Rand/US dollar exchange rate has been essentially flat, contributing a small decrease of about 3.5 cents to fuel prices as it maintains a level around R14.90 to the dollar. The picture for oil is similar, with the international prices of both petrol and diesel having run neck-and-neck for several days last week," the Association notes. The AA says the economy has taken a breather with Moody's choosing to give South Africa the benefit of the doubt with a change of outlook, rather than a downgrade. “Petrol price increases at this time of year will come as bad news for many people who will be travelling on holiday in December. However, the predicted drop in the diesel price means input costs in for instance the manufacturing and agricultural sectors remains relatively untouched in relation to fuel costs, which is good news,” the AA concludes. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 