 Port Elizabeth - Although the northern and eastern areas of the Eastern Cape are trending towards an above normal start of summer, the rest of the season is characterised by uncertainty trending towards below average rainfall, the Port Elizabeth office of the South African Weather Service said on Tuesday. "With the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's main storage dams sitting at under 35%, this is a very worrying situation," said Garth Sampson, the SA Weather Service's Client Liaison Officer for the Eastern Cape. "The last three months - from August to October, have yielded record low rainfalls. "The total rainfall for these three months is the lowest on record over most of the Eastern Cape." Sampson said that Elliot - with 27.2 mm, Mthatha (42.0 mm) Graaf Reinet (9.4 mm), Cradock (13.4 mm), Middleton (19.8 mm) and Grahamstown (31.8 mm) yielded the lowest on record. "Queenstown( 17.2 mm) was the driest since 2004, Patensie (50.6 mm), Port Elizabeth (61.8 mm) and East London were the driest since 2005," he described. "Although there was a bit of temporary relief for the Bay last year, the last significant rains (considered as above 50 mm in 24 hours) occurred in November 2017. "This two-year period is by no means a record as between January 1985 and October 1989 (4 Years 10 months) no significant falls  (above 50 mm) were recorded. "In fact between January 1985 and December 1993 (8 years) only two significant falls (over 50 mm in 24 hours) were recorded." Sampson added; "I am sure that if we reach this record that there will be a real possibility of running out of water. It is, therefore, VITAL that every person in the province uses water sparingly." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 