 East London - The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape over the weekend said that it had been saddened by the passing away of taxi industry leader, Gabriel Zanemvula Gaya, who had not been well for some time. The 67-year-old Gaya passed away on the 28th of October. "Mr Gaya been involved in the taxi industry for over a decade. He has worked hand in hand with different Transport MECs in the Province to find solutions in building a safe and peaceful taxi industry," described Gift Ngqondi, ANC Eastern Cape Provincial Head of Communications. "He has been an opponent of violence in the taxi industry and a promoter of safety for commuters and taxi operators. "Mr Gaya pioneered a programme called 'Tratam', whose purpose was to help fund taxi operators to purchase taxi's when African Bank was formed. "He was involved in projects to build legal and safe taxi ranks in Mthatha and Mount Frere." Ngqondi said that in 2005 - as Provisional President of the Eastern Cape Taxi Council, Gaya was in the forefront of the purpose-built public taxi rank spearheaded by TaxiProp. "His goal has always been a taxi industry in the Eastern Cape that is conducive for all. Mr Gaya has received recognition for his contribution in the taxi industry by receiving an award in the NAFCOC KSD awards in 2011," Ngqondi addded. "He was involved in the facilitation of the formation of one of Africa's leading transportation companies, AB350. "Outside of the taxi industry, he was also involved in the Hawkers Association where he facilitated the hand over of hawkers stalls to hawkers in Mthatha. Mr Gaya has always been a firm supporter and member of the ANC in the OR Tambo Region. "With the passing of Cde Zanemvula Gaya, we have lost a pioneer and committed activist – who will be remembered for paving the way for countless numbers of aspirant black businesspeople: and radically transforming the taxi industry in our new democracy." Ngqondi said that the African National Congress has extended its heartfelt condolences to the Gaya family and is praying for them to have strength during this difficult time. Gaya will be buried on the 9 November. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 