 Mthatha - Vuyisile Mini's first son, Xolile Mini, used the annual memorial lecture organized by the Chris Hani District Municipality - delivered by Eastern Cape Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane - to launch a renewed move for the remains of his father to be buried at his ancestral home in Tsomo. With abundant music talent, Mini was hanged by the apartheid regime in November 1964 for being a member of the ANC, a leading commander of its armed wing - Umkhonto Wesizwe, a sharp unionist fighting for the rights of the workers while fighting for the total liberation of the oppressed South Africans at the same time. When Mini’s remains were exhumed from the pauper’s grave the apartheid government interred his body after the 1964 hanging, and reburied in Port Elizabeth where he plied his dedicated political, union and artistic activism. Speaking during the lecture, his first son, Xolile said he was happy that finally the lecture took place in Tsomo and viewed it as a start of more recognition for the work his father did to liberate South Africa from racial oppression. “When I spoke to the premier reminding him that my father’s remains are still in PE because his friends and family from Tsomo where he was born, keep on asking me when will I return my father’s remains from PE to be buried in Tsomo. "This day to me shows that something will happen and the Premier promised me that this will be done by government,” said Mini adding that his family wrote a letter to the ANC confirming their unanimous decision to rebuy him in Tsomo. He said the reburial of his father’s remains in Tsomo would see a lot of progress and development to speed up infrastructure development currently underway in the area. Xolile said he wants South Africans to know that his father died for this country, leaving behind his five young children. “I was young when my father died. It had not yet dawned on me that our father left us and we will never enjoy the benefits of having a father and what a father does for his children. I felt it when I started working. "When I passed standard 6. I think I was under age when I started working because there was no other way as I had to assist our mother to raise my siblings. "I thought his siblings would help me further my studies. I don’t blame them for not doing so because they took care of their children,” said Mini. Mabuyane said government was working with the Mini family to bring his remains and those of some of his children to be reburied at their ancestral home in Tsomo. “We are working with his family to ensure that this important task is completed in the coming year. As the provincial government we have a policy of repatriating remains of our heroes back to the land of their birth. Department of Sports Recreations Arts and Culture MEC is working with the family to ensure that we achieve this task,” said Mabuyane. He said Mini was everything to South Africans because of his dedication to the liberation of oppressed South Africans. “We use November to give memorial lectures in honoring the role he played and we start this from 6 November the day he was hanged together with two of his comrades. We were here to connect with him and his family on this day. "Their struggle was to fight for the rights of the oppressed to ensure that our country was a united democratic, non racial, non sexist society and progressive country. It is important that we remind people about such struggles and people like Tatu ‘Mini who gave up their lives fighting for the total liberation of this country for all of us to live in peace and have progressive lives,” said Mabuyane. This year’s lecture, which took place at Tsomo Town Hall, was attended by scores of locals who belted some of the liberation songs composed by Mini. Image: Xolile Mini, Vuyisile Mini’s first son with the Eastern Cape Premier, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane at the annual memorial lecture to honor Mini for his role in the total liberation of oppressed South Africans. Pic by Mandla Nduna/ECOTP Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 