 Jeffreys Bay - The Kruisfontein Educare Centre is well known to members of the Humansdorp community, but few are aware of its humble beginnings dating back 18 years. Led by Florence Felix, this is the only pre-school in Kruisfontein and is now proudly run by qualified Early Childhood Development practitioners that recently graduated and where commended by the Provincial Department of Social Development. “We received our first subsidy from the Department of Social Development for the 2016/2017 period, but the most exciting change has been over the last few years, when we all achieved our NQF levels and continue to study and attend ongoing training, for the benefit of the Crèche and the young children for which we strive to provide a solid foundation,” explains the Founder and Principal, Florence Felix. Originally started under the name ‘Bimbo Crèche’ with just three children, the crèche operated from the Kruisfontein Congregational Church Hall from 2001, before moving to its current premises in 2013. Renamed the Kruisfontein Educare Centre, this is the only pre-school in Kruisfontein. Inspiring young children, the centre now has around 50 children and includes Grade R and Grade Pre-R. Florence has received further training as part of Jeffreys Bay Wind Farm’s developmental programme that includes ECD Practitioner training, mentoring and support programmes, ECD compliance and governance, infrastructure, as well as the provision of equipment and classroom resources. “The training has helped me as Principal, to be able to manage an effective learning programme which will serve as a solid foundation for education. I am now more able to offer support to my practitioners to improve their teaching practice,” added Florence who is currently studying towards a NQF Level 5. Kruisfontein Educare Centre employs a further two ECD Practitioners namely Catherine Booysen, who completed NQF Level 5 training last year and Annie Williams who, like Florence is set to complete her NQF Level 5 training by 2020. Catherine Booysen, says, “I am particularly happy to have learnt about ‘Inclusive Education’, which emphasizes that children have the right to learn and access the support they need”. “ECD remains a critical point for our country’s social and economic transformation and development, which is why our programme is so extensive. We are proud to support these remarkable ECD Practitioners who are striving to become qualified Grade R teachers in the future,” concluded Anna Letsoala, Senior Economic Development Officer for Jeffreys Bay Wind Farm. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 