 Bhisho - The Department of Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture (DSRAC) MEC Fezeka Bayeni has appointed four new members to the governing council of the Eastern Cape Arts and Culture Council (ECPACC). The appointment of the four new members serves to strengthen the Council and ensure that it has the required number of members to meet quorum. The MEC has appointed the following: Dr Noncedo Khewu, Professor Somadoda Fikeni, Mr Phumzile Zitumane, Buhle Tonise as the new members of the ECPACC council. The full ECPACC council now consists of the following members: Dr GV Mona, Ms. Jen Rowland, Mr Vuyisile Mshudulu, Dr Noncedo Khewu, Prof. Somadoda, Mr Phumzile Zitumane and Ms. Buhle Tonise. The Council further appointed Mr Phumzile Zitumane as the Chairperson and Ms Buhle Tonise as the Deputy Chairperson. The Council has hit the ground running and held its first meeting on Monday. MEC Bayeni welcomed the new council members and highlighted that, “this team of men and women with a combined wealth of knowledge and expertise in corporate governance, fundraising, financial oversight, and the development of the creative industries”. “I look forward to their advice as we work towards growing ECPACC to be a catalyst in unlocking the potential of the creative industries in the province.” Receiving the new council, the CEO, Ms Phumeza Skoti expressed her joy for what she described as “a formidable team, that in their very first council meeting, displayed strong principles of ethics, integrity and accountability, as well as demonstrated commitment to reengineering the entity into greater heights. "We are very elated for their support and decisiveness, which has been lacking in the past and trust that they will add value to the work that we have already started. Now watch the space!” said CEO Skoti. The Eastern Cape Arts and Culture Council (ECPACC) is a public entity of DSRAC with a mandate of creating an enabling environment for the development and promotion of arts and culture in the province. Since 2018, ECPACC has introduced a strategic shift, which saw it beaming with success in championing the recognition of the role of the creative industries in stimulating economic growth in the province. Consequently, in one year, the entity has drawn close to R20 million in support of the creative industries, particularly, focussing on the film industry, craft and design sector. “To strengthen these giant strides and help in repositioning the organisation to take a centre stage in driving the growth of the creative industries, I have appointed a new council as a governance structure that will drive a growth strategy and provide oversight to the entity’, said MEC Bayeni. The   appointment followed a public call of nominations and a rigorous selection process. ‘We are thankful to all those, who were nominated for accepting nomination. While they may have not been selected today, we will always appreciate their contribution in many other platforms which are to be created by the department. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 