 In this age of growing digital infrastructure, there is one industry that has experienced massive growth and a tremendous boost. It is none other than the online gaming industry. Better technology, easier access to the internet and changing lifestyles have made online gaming the next big thing. Its popularity is increasing all over the world. One of the major consumer trends in South Africa is the major growth in online gaming. The games range from things like online multiplayer games to fantasy sports. The exciting rush you get from predicting the ups and downs of sports, the joy you feel when you perform better than the people around you, are just a few of the reasons these genres have gained massive popularity. Fantasy sports and online betting have especially become extremely popular, with new leagues appearing and websites that allow you to bet responsibly being set up. Now that’s it is a cakewalk, you can play blackjack at your go-to site, video poker at www.casino.com/za/videopoker/ our favorite one, or perhaps, whatever game you like at the platform you love. People now can bet with more freedom and more comfort and things would only get more exciting with time. Without further ado, let’s look at 5 of the most popular online games of 2019. Tencent’s PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds is possibly the most popular online game in 2019, along with Fortnite. Experiencing an immense growth in the number of users, the game is said to have been downloaded more than 200 million times worldwide, and by 2018, had 30 million active users. The popularity of this game has fascinated everyone, with several attempting to figure out what exactly makes this game so popular. Accommodating 99 players at a time, the game assigns you a map and a mission, where one needs to kill all the hidden enemies so as to survive and win. The graphics and the social interaction the game provides make it incredibly popular. A form of stress relief, this game is on almost every teenager has heard of. Another multiplayer game, Fortnite is the only one whose popularity has dared to rival that of PUBG. Fortnite’s appeal comes from the fact that Epic Games, the developer, constantly updates the game with new exciting features regularly, that keeps the players coming back to check out the new updates. Its lucrative nature has even had developer PUBG corp acknowledge that they have fallen short. Another thing that differentiates it from PUBG is the stylized graphics as well as the aesthetic general fee. The arcade-style shooting feature is another unique factor.  Developed by Valve Corporation in 2014, this online gave have over 32 million players. A unique game or terrorist and counter-terrorist attacks, this is not just another shooter game. One can diffuse and plant bombs, rescue hostages, kill terrorists, secure locations shown on the map and finally accomplish the mission. A multiplayer shooting game primarily based on strategy and tactics. This appeals to a lot of online gamers. Multiplayer games have always been popular as the players get to interact with each other and conquer missions together—quite like how people enjoy team sport more than individual sport. Moreover, the competitive nature of these games always makes them popular, as players have a special pride in outsmarting and being better than their peers. If there is one game that everyone, gamers and non-gamers alike know about, it is Minecraft. This game is a phenomenon and has achieved immense popularity since its release two years ago, with people even calling it the “Super Mario of this generation”. It’s simply a computerized version of Lego, where you can build worlds according to what you want. Why is such a simple game so popular? For one, players are provided with a blank canvas and innumerable materials. They start with a simple block and move onto building whatever they want. This game allows creativity, artistic innovation and most importantly freedom. This outlet for artistic expression makes players feel more productive about the time they spend playing this game, making the experience more meaningful. This is a free online card collecting game, developed by Blizzard Entertainment. Players can either buy booster packs, or by cards with the gold they accumulate within the game, or even break down old cards to forge new ones. With brilliant graphics, one of the most influential User Interface screens, and easy accessibility, it’s not difficult to see why this game is so popular. Hearthstone also offers a plethora of special features that set it apart from similar games like Blizzard. Fast-paced, offering various adventure scenarios and unusual quests, the game sometimes even pits players against unusual opponents. Bright, fast, addictive, this game is truly addictive and a good test of players’ problem-solving skills. With the rise of multiplayer games, games involving strategies and critical thinking, or even something as simple as building blocks, it’s going to be interesting to see what the next popular game will be. 