 Port Elizabeth - Bridge Street Brewery, in collaboration with Something Good Roadhouse and Z-Sports, will be hosting the first ever Coast to Craft Fun Run! This 6km run will be an annual occurence, and the run will be open to everyone over the age of 12 years. Coast to Craft willl be taking place on Saturday the 16th of November, giving the friendly people of the bay a fun, memorable event that the whole family can look forward to every year! The scenic route will take you along the beach front, the harbour, and the inner city, crossing over into the beautiful Baakens Valley via the newly built Baakens River Pedestrian Bridge. The 6km Fun-Run will start at Something Good with a complementary coffee and end at Bridge Street Brewery with a well-deserved, complementary beer, not forgetting the Coast to Craft T-shirt that race participants will get for keeps! All proceeds of the Run are going to Z-Sports (Non Profit Organisation), with the hope that this will be the beginning of many more events in partnership with the prominent sports brand, supporting the incredible work that they do in our community! This healthy mix of great coffee, craft beer, family fun and outdoor exercise, is set to be a winning recipe. Bridge Street Brewery and Something Good Roadhouse have become household names are two of the most popular local spots for great entertainment and dining. These two leading restaurants have come together with Z-Sports, which has done a phenomenal job at finding innovative ways to enrich and empower communities, with the way they’ve pioneered outdoor excercise events. They have partnered with an array of charity organisations as well as business entities operating in various sectors, to create some of the most memorable events that The Bay has seen. When Bridge Street Brewery Brand and Technical Manager, Sean Thompson, was asked what the aim of this event is, this is what he had to say: “Craft Beer is our passion, and we’re closely affiliated and aligned with outdoor sports and activities, and what better way to bring the two together? Craft beer culture is a global trend and we want to make our community aware of that, as well as reinforce the importance of outdoor activities and exercise. "This is also an opportunity to make our city and overall region aware of the fact that artisanal breweries and micro breweries have a significant contribution to the local economy and employment rate,” he said. The registration fee is R130 per person and R50 for those under the age of 18. Late registrations and race collections will take place at Something Good Roadhouse from 7:30 to 9am on Saturday morning, where each race participant will be welcomed with a perfectly brewed cup of coffee! Image: COAST TO CRAFT CREW: (from left to right) Bridge Street Brewery Brand and Technical Manager Sean Thompson, Something Good Roadhouse General Manager Kosie de Jager and Bridge Street Brewery Service Manager Jordan Drury ready to cruise along the coast. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 