 Port Alfred - Police in Port Alfred have warned that an attack on a Police Official is an attack on the State and similarly, and attack on any of their serving canine or equine partners is an attack on the State. "These faithful animals serve alongside their human police officers of the SAPS with passion, discipline and dedication," described police spokesperson, Captain Mali Govender. "'Ounooi' the six-year-old Belgian Shepard attached to the Port Alfred K9 unit is in a stable condition after she was stabbed in the early hours of Saturday morning by a housebreaking suspect. "At approximately 04:00, members of the Port Alfred K9 unit responded to a positive Housebreaking complaint in Port Alfred." Capt Govender said that tracks of the suspects were followed onto the beach and the handler spotted the one suspect running along the beach. "He warned him to stop, but the suspect ignored the member and continued to flee," she said. "The handler then released his Patrol Dog – 'Ounooi' and whilst she attempted to apprehended the suspect, the offender then started to stab 'Ounooi' on her upper body and in the chest area. Weak from the stab wounds, 'Ounooi' collapsed and the suspect he ran towards to the water. "'Ounooi' was taken to the local vet for medical treatment. The stab wounds damaged muscles close to her heart. She is currently in a stable condition and been book off duty to recuperate." Capt Govender said that a search for the suspect by was conducted, but with negative results. "The local NSRI was mobilised and there is still no sign of the suspect. The search continues." Port Alfred SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier Morgan Govender, said; "On behalf of your colleagues within the Cluster, we wish you a speedy recovery. "'Ounooi' has displayed extreme dedication, bravery and courage throughout her four years in the Service and has been instrumental in apprehending several suspects whilst on duty. The handler will be referred for trauma counselling.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 