 Jeffreys Bay - Detectives from the South African Police Service in Jeffreys Bay are searching for an armed man, who allegedly attacked a 48-year-old Jeffreys Bay woman on her farm in Kabeljauws. "It is alleged that a 48-year-old woman was busy performing administrative duties in the office that is situated next to her home on Friday night, at about 20:30, when she heard noises outside the premises," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "At first, she thought it was her husband, but then she saw two armed men (one with a firearm and one with a sharp object) in front of the office, trying to gain access to the office. "One of the suspects then allegedly fired several shots at her and the 48-year-old woman retaliated. The suspect managed to stab the victim with a sharp object in her head and the victim shot the man in the upperbody." It was then that the other suspect then ran away from the scene. "The victim phoned her husband, who immediately alerted the necessary emergency services. The suspect (in his 30) was admitted to hospital, with gunshot wounds to his upperbody," Capt Swart said. "The victim received medical treatment for her injuries." She added that Jeffreys Bay SAPS detectives are investigating a case of attempted murder and attempted house robbery and are currently following up on all possible leads. "Anyone who might be able to assist with any information that could lead to the arrest of the other suspect is requested to contact Detective Warrant Officer Francis Scott on 082 441 7645 or SAPS Jeffreys Bay on 042 200 6800." Humansdorp Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok said: "Crimes against women and children remain a top priority for the South African Police Service and perpetrators of such crimes will be traced and brought before court to account for their actions". The arrested suspect will appear in the Humansdorp Magistrate's Court, once he is found fit enough to be discharged from hospital. "Anyone who has any information on crime are requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality. The MySAPS app is also available for South African citizens to download onto their smartphones from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 