 Uitenhage - A 25-year-old robbery suspect is expected in court on Thursday after he was arrested by Uitenhage police, who also seized a suspected getaway vehicle after five men targeted a spaza shop in KwaNobuhle on Tuesday. "At around 4am, it is alleged that five men at least one of them armed with a firearm fastened a rope at the door of a spaza shop in Ben Stungu Street, KwaNobuhle, and pulled it open with a vehicle," police said. "A 55-year-old shop owner, who was asleep inside the shop was woken by a sound of the opening door. "One of the suspects held him at gunpoint, while others ransacked the store." The suspects managed to steal cash, cigarettes and airtime vouchers before fleeing in a getaway vehicle, a silver Daihatsu, that was also used in opening the door. "Immediately, the police were alerted, and a vehicle was circulated to all police communication channels. "An hour later, police spotted the vehicle driving in Jabavu Road, KwaNobuhle. and there was a high speed chase," police added. "At Philemon Kona Street, KwaNobuhle, a shootout ensued between police and suspects. One suspect was arrested, and the other four managed to flee. "The getaway vehicle was confiscated for further investigation. No person was injured during the incident." Uitenhage police are urging anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the other suspects to contact the KwaNobuhle Detectives standby number (Serious Violent Crimes) at 082 319 9223. "The information may also be shared anonymously via Crime Stop 08600 10111. The 25-year-old suspect is due to appear in the KwaNobuhle Magistrate’s Court on Thursday on charges of business robbery." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 