 Port Elizabeth - Excellent teamwork and thorough investigation resulted in the speedy sentencing of two house robbers in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court on Wednesday. "On a Saturday in September this year, at about 18:50, an 18-year-old woman was watching TV at her home in Tiran Road in Summerstrand, Port Elizabeth, when she was accosted by an unknown male in her house," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Her tenant (now a suspect) was also present, but was supposedly asleep throughout the incident. "The victim was threatened with a knife, tied up and locked in a room while the house was ransacked. "Several TV’s, an iPad, a cellphone, other household items and her Hyundai vehicle was taken." Col Naidu said that the vehicle was fitted with a tracker and it’s was tracked to Masson Street in Kabega Park, Port Elizabeth, on the same day where PE K9 unit members found it abandoned. "Movement of the vehicle was backtracked and it was further established that the vehicle stood off at a house in Pollock Street in Rowallen Park for about 10 minutes," she described. "At about 22:10, the members stood off at a house in Pollock Street in Rowallen Park. "The outbuilding of the house was searched and a further three males aged 37, 20 and 34 years old were found inside. "All the stolen property was found hidden in the room. All three males were arrested and detained on a charge of possession of suspected stolen property however the 37-year-old was later released." Through investigations, it was later established that the tenant is the mother of Warren Foxcroft (20). She was also arrested and charged for conspiracy to commit a crime. On Wednesday, Warren Foxcroft and Hamish Penny (34) were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for house robbery and five years for housebreaking. "The sentences will run concurrently, therefore the two accused will effectively serve 10 years in prison," Col Naidu said. "The case against Sue-Ellen Foxcroft (40) is still pending." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile commended all those involved in the speedy recovery ,arrests and thorough investigation which resulted in the rapid sentencing. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 