 Port Elizabeth - Alertness on the part of police officers bore fruits as they arrested three suspects in Rose Street, in Central, Port Elizabeth, on Sunday afternoon. According to police information, it is alleged that at about 12:20, SAPS Humewood members were patrolling the area when they stopped a suspicious Ford Laser with three occupants. "On searching the vehicle, dagga (249 grams) and a black Acer laptop was found inside," Col Naidu said. "A 9mm pistol was found in the possession of the 30-year-old male. "The firearm was reportedly taken in a housebreaking case in Zastron in the Free State in April 2019." She said that the suspect was detained for illegal possession of a firearm, illegal possession of dagga and possession of suspected stolen property. Meanwhile the other two suspects, aged 29 and 31 years old, were detained on a charges of possession of suspected stolen property and the illegal possession of dagga. "They will appear in the Port Elizabeth magistrates’ court soon," Col Naidu said. "Police is urging anyone who may have had their laptops stolen to contact the nearest police station or D/Col Paul Orange on 082 779 7247 or SAPS Humewood on 041 504 5019. "The latest confiscation of the firearm brings the total number of firearms recovered since Friday to 6." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, commended the concerted efforts of the men and women in blue, who are doing everything in their power to strip these criminals of these illegal firearms. “We will be adopting a ‘no nonsense’ approach during this festive season. Our members are committed and ready to ensure the safety of their communities during this period and we will not be threatened by these criminals as we clamp down on them.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 