 Port Elizabeth - The South African Police Service on Thursday said it is committed in ensuring that all people within the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan are and feel safe during this festive season. "However, this can only be achieved if individuals and communities cooperate with the police by volunteering information on criminals and their activities, and by persons taking reasonable steps to ensure their personal safety," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Since money is the primary motivation for most of the crime during this period, the SAPS would like to caution people against the dangers of carrying large amounts of money on them. "Police are once again appealing to the stokvel clubs to take the necessary precautions in safeguarding their money." She said that during this time of the year, thousands of rands are withdrawn to be paid out to club members. "Police are advising that instead of withdrawing such large amounts of cash, arrange for the club’s pay out to be electronically transferred into each club member’s personal account or accounts of their choice," Col Naidu said. "In so doing, the physical handling of huge amounts of cash can be avoided. This will also deter criminals who are aware of such stokvels. "Stokvel members should liaise with the banks about the available banking products that may assist them in conducting transactions without having to withdraw all their deposits, thus risking being robbed and, at times death. "Be aware of who you share information on your intentions to withdraw money as the very people may arrange for your robbery later. "There have been incidents in the past where people were robbed of their stokvel savings. Always take another person with when withdrawing/depositing contributions." She said that by being proactive and alert, everyone can enjoy a peaceful festive season. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 