 East London - As the country heads into the busy festive season, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape says the province must clamp down on unroadworthy vehicles that are making use of the province’s roads, as these vehicles place the lives of their occupants and those of other road users at risk. The Eastern Cape recorded the third highest number of road fatalities and the second highest number of crashes over the 2018 December holidays, according to the preliminary Festive Season Road Safety report released by Transport Minister, Blade Nzimande. "On Sunday, as we remember the lives lost in road accidents as part of the World Remembrance Day for road traffic victims, the Democratic Alliance is calling on the MEC for Transport, Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe, to take action against these unroadworthy vehicles," said Marshall von Buchenroder (MPL), DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Transport. "These vehicles need to be identified, their owners fined, and the vehicles impounded so that they can no longer be driven on our roads. In doing so, this will drastically improve on road safety. "Some of these unroadworthy vehicles are used for public transport, and are driven into the ground, with owners not giving any consideration to maintenance, preferring profit over safety of their passengers." Von Buchenroder said that a two-pronged approach needs to be taken to deal with these unroadworthy public transport vehicles, with a roll out of an awareness campaign on the voluntary Taxi Recapitalisation Programme, and a clamp down on the unroadworthy vehicles. "The Recapitalisation Programme, driven by the National Department of Transport, recently increased the scrapping allowance from R91,100 to R124,000 per vehicle. "Despite this, many taxi operators prefer to keep their old unroadworthy vehicles on the road, as they have been paid off and are therefore more profitable. Purchasing a new vehicle comes with an extra monthly debt cost, driving profits down," he added. "It is therefore imperative that, where a vehicle is not fit to be on the road, it is removed by law enforcement. The safety of our road users must be our first priority. "The MEC must also prioritise the rollout of 24-hour traffic law enforcement to bring law and order back to the province’s roads.  We have seen that the standard road safety programmes have failed to be effective." Von Buchenroder further said that there needs to be a drastic change in the attitude of drivers and all road users. "The sudden hype around road safety over the festive seasons does not address the problems faced on our roads. "A culture of respect for the law, and obedience of the law, will only start to development if those laws are applied consistently," he said. "The DA would also like to take this opportunity to extend our condolences to the families who have lost loved ones on the Eastern Cape roads this past year." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 