 Humansdorp - Determination and commitment paid off on Monday when members from SAPS Humansdorp acted swiftly after receiving a complaint of a business robbery in Felix Street, Humansdorp, at about 13:35. "Upon arrival at the scene, SAPS members noticed that three suspects fled on foot from the scene," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "Members immediately gave chase and managed to apprehend a 20-year-old male with groceries that is believed to be taken during the business robbery. "The suspect was arrested on the scene and the suspected stolen goods were also seized." She said that the other two suspects managed to evade arrest, but members are currently following up on all possible leads and more arrests are imminent. According to police information, three suspects, of which one was armed with a firearm, entered the business and demanded cash. "The suspects then took cash, groceries and a cellphone and fled from the scene. No shots were fired at the scene and no one was injured during the robbery." Capt Swart said that the suspect is due to appear in the Humansdorp Magistrate’s Court on a charge of business robbery soon. Humansdorp Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, commended the members for their swift response, which led to the arrest of the alleged suspect. Brigadier Lebok said: “Members from the South African Police Service will not tolerate any lawlessness, especially over the festive season and we will pursue all avenues to bring offenders to book”. Police have encouraged the community to assist with information by phoning Crime Stop 08600 10111 or to download the MySAPS app and join the fight against crime. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 