 East London - During the Ward by-elections contested on Wednesday in the Eastern Cape the African National Congress (ANC) retained its two seats and the Democratic Alliance (DA) retained its one seat won in the 2016 Municipal Elections. The ANC retained its two seats in the Ngqushwa Local Municipality and the Umzimvubu Local Municipality. The new ANC councillors are: At the time of publishing, the ANC in the Eastern Cae had not commented on its victory. Meanwhile, the DA retained its ward in the Blue Crane Route Local Municipality. The new DA councillor is: Commenting on its win, DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga said that its candidate, Jonathan Martin, emerged victorious in a tightly contested election - and received 53,5% of the valid votes cast. "This results indicates growth after the DA received 50,26% of the vote in this ward in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections," Bhanga said. "The by-election was also contested by the African National Congress (ANC) the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). This result is a vote of confidence in the DA, and the endorsement from the voters proves that the DA remains on track ahead of the 2021 local government elections. "It is also a clear indication that the residents of the Blue Crane Route Municipality are tired of being neglected and ignored by an uncaring ANC government.  "Over the past two weeks there has been a surge of support for the DA in rural Eastern Cape."  Bhanga said that on 23 October this year, the DA contested the Ward 34 (Hofmeyr) by-election in Enoch Mgijima Local Municipality and grew by almost 15%. "Our support increased from 33,08% in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections to 47,71% in this by-election," he added.  "We are grateful to voters for giving us this mandate and we don’t take it lightly. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 