 Port Elizabeth - Police on Friday said that the recovery of counterfeit goods worth millions of rands in Port Elizabeth is an affirmation of the police's operation #Zizojika Izintoturning the tide against crime. "The South African Police Service (SAPS) remains committed in turning the tide against crime and the proliferation and/or selling of illicit and counterfeit goods the Province," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "This was realised when Border Policing members in the Port of Ngqura acted on information received on counterfeit products/ items that were sold in a shop in Port Elizabeth." On Tuesday, at about 17:00, a multi-disciplinary team comprising of the SAPS, Adams & Adams and Spoor & Fischer patent attorneys (experts) as well as representatives of brand companies swooped in on the identified shop in Port Elizabeth. "During the operation, counterfeit perfumes and branded clothing to the value of R7 129 650.00 were identified and confiscated." The following commodities with an estimated value of R6 958 600.00 were seized: • 1 440 X HUGO BOSS perfume bottles; • 58 x DIESEL perfume bottles; • 912 x BAMBO perfume bottles; • 542 x FERRRI perfume bottles;• 740 x BLACK OPIUM perfume bottles; • 47 x CHAMPAGNE perfume bottles;• 174 x DEAR MISS perfume bottles; • 193 x CALVIN KLEIN perfume bottles;• 93 x MARC JACOBS perfume bottles;• 724 x POLO perfume bottles; • 455 x LACOSTE perfume bottles; • 524 x COCO CHANEL perfume bottles;• 232 x BVLGARI perfume bottles and • 75 pieces of Monopoly board games He added that other clothing items including branded Nike, Adidas, Puma and K-way brands to the value of R171 050.00 were confiscated from the street hawker. The items with an estimated value of R171 050.00 included: • 77 x pieces of Adidas clothing; • 19 x Adidas sneakers; • 44 x Adidas caps; • 7 x Adidas watches; • 3 x Nike bags; • 43 x Nike caps; • 28 x pieces of Nike clothing; • 5 x pieces of Puma clothing; • 38 x Puma caps; • 6 x Puma bags and • 35 x K-way caps "All the seized items were handed over to the brand attorneys representatives for further investigation. The suspects were warned in terms of dealing in counterfeit goods and their documentation was verified by Department of Home Affairs as both are foreign nationals." The Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga commended the members for hastening to follow the information as soon as it was received and thanked the law abiding citizens for continuing to share credible information with the SAPS. “Tough times are ahead for criminals who continue to undermine the authority of the State in Eastern Cape, #Buya Mthetho. We committed ourselves when we launched our 2019/2020 Safer Festive Season Operations in East London on 6 November 2019 and we will continue to stamp the authority of the State and will not allow our province to be the hideout spot for illegal traders fleeing from other provinces,” said Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 