 Mthatha - President Cyril Ramaphosa honoured the late King Zwelonke Mpendulo Sigcawu by declaring a Special Official Funeral Category 1 for His Majesty."The King’s funeral will feature military ceremonial elements in accordance with the Category 1 status of this occasion," explained Khusela Diko, Spokesperson to the President.President Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy on Friday 29 November 2019 when the king will be laid to rest."The National Flag will fly at half-mast throughout the country from Monday, 25 November 2019 until the evening of Friday, 29 November 2019," said Diko."His Majesty became King of amaXhosa in 2006 and led his people until his passing on Thursday, 14 November 2019."He was also the first King in South Africa to be crowned in 2015 after the democratic recognition of traditional leadership."President Ramaphosa has paid tribute to Kumkani Zwelonke as an outstanding leader who had served his people with selfless dedication. This week, the Eastern Cape Provincial Government’s executive council held special meeting where it also decided on the role the provincial government will play in supporting the royal family and the AmaXhosa kingdom in the preparations for the funeral service of their King, His Majesty, Ah! Zwelonke. "At the meeting, we received a report from the Provincial Inter ministerial Committee that I formed to lead teams from a number of government departments and municipalities in coordinating government support as part of the preparations for the funeral service of the King of Amaxhosa," said Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane. "The meeting also received the letter from the Presidency informing us that the President has declared that the funeral service of His Majesty, Ah! Zwelonke will be a Special Official Funeral category 1. "This category of the funeral covers persons with extraordinary credentials specifically designated by the President of the Republic of South Africa. As the provincial government we welcome the declaration of this funeral by the President." Mabuyane said that the role of government in the preparations for this funeral service is to assist the family and the Kingdom with the provision of logistics support for the funeral service and during the days of mourning leading to the date of the funeral service of His Majesty. "Our priority as the provincial government is to ensure that his Majesty is given a decent funeral service. In this regard, the provincial government provides this support with caution given the fiscal limitations government is facing," he added. "Once again, we send our heartfelt condolences to the royal family and the AmaXhosa Kingdom." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  