 Sterkspruit -Seven suspects are in custody in Sterkspruit after they were arrested by police in a comprehensive intelligence-driven operation. "After several intelligence-driven operations the combined forces of Sterkspruit Crime Intelligence, Visible Policing, Detectives and Aliwal North LCRC, together with the positive part the community, played in providing positive information six suspects were successfully arrested after a murder and hijacking was reported at Sterkspruit," said police spokesperson, Capt Ursula Roelofse. "It was on the 26th of September 2019, at 21:00, that information was received that the victim, Mr Sphiwo Ntloko, was taken forcefully from his residence with his vehicle Toyota Hilux by unknown suspects. "The suspects allegedly demanded money from the victim as the victim’s bank card was used to withdraw money at the ATM in Sterkspruit. "The suspects demanded more money and the victim persuaded the suspects to contact family members to bring another bank card to town." She said that family members of the victim responded and on observing the suspicious activities at a specific bank in Sterkspruit, immediately alerted the police. Capt Roelofse said that members of the Sterkspruit police Crime Intelligence unit and VISPOL attended to the information. "The seven suspects observing the SAPS members in the area then forced the victim into his vehicle and sped off in the direction of Mokhesi A/A," she said. "A search was conducted around Mokhesi A/A, and at around 03:14, the victim and his vehicle were found abandoned the body of the victim was later recovered about 100 meters away from the vehicle. "Indications were that the deceased died of visible head injuries." Sterkspruit police trace and arrest men for abduction  She said that all roleplayers were called to the crime scene. "The LCRC lifted finger-prints from the vehicle and one positive identification was later made on the finger-prints lifted," Capt Roelofse said. "Follow-up collection at the bank on 27 September 2019 confirmed that several cash withdrawals were made from the deceased's bank accounts. "Since the incident, various information was received and the members were able to identify all the suspects." A number of intelligence-driven operations were conducted from the day of the incident up until Monday this week to trace and arrest all the suspects by Crime Intelligence, Visible Policing and Sterkspruit Detectives. "The first operation led the members to the Palmietfontein area where four of the suspects, ageed 32,19,23 and 20, were traced and arrested. "Follow-up information indicated that the other suspects went to visit an initiation school and were on their way to the village of Ndingishe Admin Area," Capt Roelofse said. "An operation was conducted and one suspect, aged 25 years old, was arrested. "The next day an operation was conducted at Ndingishe Admin Area where a 32-year-old suspect was traced and arrested. The last suspect, aged 26 years, was also later arrested." Capt Roelofse said that all suspects remain in custody at Sterkspruit. Sterkspruit SAPS Deputy Cluster Commander Col Mpho Rabela applauded the combined forces for their commitment and dedication and hours of sacrifice in order to arrest the suspects. "Thank you to the community that supported the investigation with positive information," she added. "Together the suspects felt the power of working together." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 