 Port Elizabeth - The establishment of an Integrated Operational Coordinating Committee (IOCC), intended to monitor and evaluate crime-combatting operations in Nelson Mandela Bay this festive season, already proved effective with numerous successes. From surprising a burglary victim with his stolen property and the burglar in custody at the Humewood Police Station, confiscating firearms to saving unsuspecting consumers from buying expired baby food and other perishable items, all made the successes column at the first sitting of the IOCC. Advocate Keith Meyer, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Director for Safety and Security, chairs the Integrated Operational Coordinating Committee with his operational divisional heads monitoring and evaluating their work on a daily basis. Metro Police Chief Yolande Faro described how an operation a week ago saved unwary shoppers the hazardous consequences of feeding toddlers expired Purity baby food or even consuming canned mixed vegetables and numerous other foodstuffs themselves. “Our members conducted routine inspections at shops in the Central area last Tuesday and discovered expired items ranging from baby food, milk, juice, smoothies, various sauces, canned vegetables and even chocolates. “We likely saved consumers from food poisoning or a worse fate,” Faro said. It does not often happen in law enforcement that incidents end with a satisfactory conclusion but in this case, to improve the day of a burglary victim from bad to much better, Faro pondered. “While patrolling in the vicinity of the Port Elizabeth City Hall, Supt Mangwane and Sgt Qozeleni observed two suspicious looking men in Strand Street. “They had a bar sign and glasses in their possession. One of the suspects was released after his companion admitted that he stole the property. “When our team arrived at the Humewood Police Station the owner of the property was busy opening a case,” Faro added. As part of a preventative drive to curb sea and road accidents during the holiday season, an Integrated Awareness Campaign themed “prepare and prevent, instead of repair and repent”was held by the South African Police Services, Metro Police, Fire & Emergency, Traffic Services, Emergency Medical Services and SSS Advance driving at St. Albans, Greenbushes. The awareness concentrated on highlighting reckless behaviour such as drinking and driving or swimming, leaving young children unsupervised at the beach amongst others. Metro Police Chief Yolande Faro said a Metro Police patrol noticed a suspicious BMW and when the vehicle was stopped, an occupant bent to collect something from under either a seat or tried to hide it. “The member demanded that the passenger halts his action and a 9mm firearm was discovered. The person in control of the firearm was tested to determine his alcohol level that measured at 0,81mg/l. The suspect was arrested for Possession of a firearm without a valid permit and handling a firearm while under the influence of alcohol,” Faro said. Advocate Meyer introduced the Integrated Operating Coordinating Committee for the first time this year and would like more streamlined operations during the festive season. Measurable campaigns are in place to deal with road safety, water safety, crime in general, hotspots and prevention through creating awareness. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  