 Port Elizabeth - The Anti-Gang Unit Tracking and Combat teams were on Wednesday hot on the heels of suspects wanted in gang related shootings in the Gelvandale area. "The first arrest was effected at 11:30 on Wednesday morning in Pienaar Street in Helenvale," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The team were tracking wanted suspects when they spotted a 28-year-old male in the street. "The suspect is wanted for an attempted murder case which took place in July 2016." Col Naidu said that it is alleged that at about 08:10 on 15 July 2016, the complainant and his friend were standing at the corners of Deverill and Standford Road when they noticed the suspect with a firearm in his hand. "He fired several shots at the duo, who did not sustain any injuries." Col Naidu said that the second suspect was arrested at about 13:15 on Wednesday afternoon in Fitchard Street in Helenvale. "While conducting investigation duties, the AGU Tracking Team received information about the 30-year-old attempted murder suspect," she said. " Information was immediately followed up and the suspect was arrested in front of a house." It is alleged that on 1 January 2019, at about 00:25, the 52-year-old complainant and his family were asleep in their house in Chamois Street in Helenvale when shots were fired at their house. "No one was injured and suspect was known." Meanwhile, a third suspect surrendered to AGU members after his alleged involvement in a shooting incident, which took place on Tuesday in Deverill Road in Helenvale. "It is alleged that at about 15:50, a 52 year old man was standing in Baatjies Street when the suspects approached him. The complainant ran into Deverill Road when shots were fired at him," Col Naidu said. "He sustained a gunshot wound to his leg. "A 22-year-old suspect was arrested immediately after the incident. "The 21-year-old suspect handed himself over to police on Wednesday. He was detained on a charge of attempted murder." She added that the arrested suspects are expected to appear in court soon. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, has applauded the team for their arrests and reiterated that "it is clear from these arrests that we are serious on turning the tide against crime this festive period. "We will be making every effort in tracing and apprehending those criminals, who are wanted on our cases. We are coming after you and it is only a matter of time before we hunt you down." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 