 Mthatha - The Walter Sisulu University's collaborative project, the Phyllis Ntantala Library, is the recipient of this year’s South African Institute of Architects Border Kei Regional Award - the highest honour at its level. The Phyllis Ntantala Library is a R200 million joint initiative amongst the provinces biggest universities including the University of Fort Hare and University of South Africa. The library was officially opened in East London on, 27 October 2018, by former Higher Education and Training minister, Dr Naledi Pando to service in excess of 2500 students at any given time. “In conceptualization of the building, the aim has always been to ensure that the end product must at all times provide humane, user-friendly and inclusionary atmosphere,” said Ngonyama and Associates project leader, Silindile Ngonyama. The words and intensions of Ngonyama & Associates vision ring true when entering the facility that provides for palpable social interactive spaces on all floors and boasts breath-taking city, ocean and harbour views to the user’s delight. “As an architectural piece, we believe that this project embraces Vitruvian principles of good architecture which are firmness, commodity and delight. This project has not only ticked all the Vitruvian good architecture principles, but has also ensured ecological and inclusionary sustainability for her user and recipient community,” added Ngonyama. According to Ngonyama and Associates, the projects submitted for consideration were those completed from January 2017 to December 2018. “Recognition is given to such building projects where the opinion of the adjudicating team demonstrates good architecture. Then an eminent non-architect to adjudicate on projects submitted by professional registered architects,” added Ngonyama. The library is named after the late Eastern Cape-born political activist and scholar, Phyllis Ntantala. She is also the mother of the prominent politician and thought leader Pallo Jordan and wife to critically acclaimed isiXhosa literature author, Archibald Campbell Jordan. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  