 Mthatha - Former mine worker, Mthulana Rhaxothi, from Mqwangqweni, in Ngqeleni, where the Eastern Cape Premier, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, opened the state of the art Nolitha Clinic, which forms part of the National Health Insurance program, praised the new clinic for curing his tuberculosis, calling the facility; a heaven on earth. After Rhaxothi retired from mining in 2010, he was later diagnosed with TB and nurses at Nolitha Clinic put him on a TB treatment. “We now realise that the hospitals we visit are lower grade compared to this new clinic because of its quality and the quality health care we get from this clinic. I was put on TB treatment last year by this clinic. But now I am fine, thanks to this clinic. "I had water in my lungs that was treated with the medication. It was bad because I was vomiting, I could not eat anything, including meat but I continued taking TB treatment until i was cured. I then start moving because it was difficult for me to even walk from my bedroom to the lounge,” said Rhaxothi. Rhaxothi, who said doctors told him he contracted TB when he was working in the mines, urged other villagers to make use of the Nolitha clinic when they feel ailments, saying they must take their treatment and not wait until diseases kill them. Nolitha clinic, which saw its first patient in 1983, is part of the National health insurance programs piloted in the OR Tambo District by the government in a bid to bring specialized health care to the villagers who cannot afford private medical care. For Thandokazi Nqeketo, 30, the clinic was a blessing to all the villagers services by the clinic. “We are greatfull for this new clinic because the old clinic was small and did not have waiting room. The new clinic is big and we have a waiting area. Nurses attend to all patients and they give quality healthcare to patients. "I encourage other young people to use the clinic for treatment. Nurses here encourage us to test ourselves so that we can get treatment for any ailment,” said Nqeketo, adding that being diagnosed with sickness was not a death sentence as nurses are there to provide treatment. This clinic’s staff compliment includes an operational manager, specialist nurses, a sessional medical doctor, a pharmacist, professional and enrolled nurses that will serve about 7 868 villagers from Mqwangqweni, scores of other patients from eight villages neibghouring Mqwangqweni such as Mangwaneni, Dumasi, Malungeni, Lujizweni, Mawotsheni villages and eight schools nearby. One of the professional nurses working here, Mrs Nomakholwa Mketo, who has been working at the clinic since 2008 said working conditions in the new clinic were improved compared to the old clinic. “Patients coming to the clinic are helped by the machinery we use in this clinic. Everything is done smoothly because we provide help here at the clinic immediately before they go to the hospitals. Some of them don’t even have to go to the hospitals. "People must come to this clinic because we are helping people here. Having sessional doctors in the clinics helps patients get medical care at the clinic without traveling to hospitals,” said Mketo. When Mabuyane officially opened the brand new Nolitha clinic he brought the much needed National Health Insurance programs to villagers battling ill health. HIV and AIDS, Tuberculosis and scabies are the three prevalent diseases found amongst the clinic population (Mqwangqweni and nearby villages). “We appreciate the investment made by the national department of health. Ours as the province is to make sure that nurses, doctors work properly and that we must continue ensuring availability of medication for patients. "We now want to ensure that we have regular sessional doctors for this clinic so that we continue providing comprehensive primary health care to rural communities from these villages in their villages. Government is fulfilling people’s needs, desires and is answering questions from communities. "I am happy that the road to Canzibe hospital that passes through this village is being constructed. When we connect the clinic to the broadband network it will be easy to connect the machinery and computers into the system to reduce the loss of patient records which causes high litigation costs,” said Mabuyane. He said the clinic has facilities like emergency rooms, vital signs, consulting rooms, acute and emergency medical facility room (which includes emergency maternity facility) to help provide specialized health care to villagers in the rural communities. “We appreciate the work being done through this program. We draw this NHI program from the Freedom Charter which mandates us to provide quality healthcare to the people of this country. Government is reviving previous programs like the clinics of excellence. "We appreciate the role of the community in building the old clinic. People are getting medical health care from this new clinic. We have good patients statistics of more than 1000 people visiting per month. You can imagine the daily numbers,” said Mabuyane. The clinic implements all the NHI programs helping this state-of-the-art health center to continue delivering comprehensive primary health care services to the villagers whose majority depend on social grants as their main source of income. Other NHI clinics in the province are Sakhela, Gengqe, Luthubeni, Lusikisiki Village, Maxwele, Lotana, and Nkanga clinics which have already been opened by government. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 