 East London - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Thursday visited the Abbotsford Christian Centre to attend and participate at the second day of SAPS Men's Conference. He said he is very concerned about negative incidents that happen involving police e.g. where a police station is alleged to be closing and locking gates at night because of police station's inadequate safety measures, resulting in police locking the gates while at the same time increasing danger and lack of access for the public. "I must appreciate the posturing of the mood and hosting of events like this, that makes it conducive for police to work in," said the Premier in his opening remarks. He thanked a quick response by the office of the Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, whenever his office raised concerns emanating from the public complaints. Mabuyane made reference to recent incident in Komani, where a little boy was lost and later found dead with gross injury on his head. Premier touched on the abhorred conduct and behaviour of police, who take their tools of trade to injure, attack and kill spouses and family members. "Walk away from such situations or relationships and be a hero to your kids," said the Premier warning police members, who use state firearms to try and solve domestic disputes. "We are are here to motivate you, to join hands and encourage you in the good job you are doing as police. So far you are doing good and my office is always open to support you.  We hope that after this gathering you will go out and make a difference in the society." Dialogue between the SAPS and the community Lt Gen Ntshinga also stepped on the podium to do introductory remarks before allowing  the days processes and dialogue session. The young and old had an intergenerational conversation, shared problems, challenges, experiences as well collectively seeking for  solution. "Now is the time for men to talk," she said as she invited the younger delegates within the SAPS service to come forward and sit closer to the front and not be shy to speak. The session was punctuated by a very entertaining and enjoyable performance by 'Mrojana Dick-Molo a very entertaining comedian who kept everyone laughing. Since it was Maj Gen Andre Swart's birthday, delegates sang him a happy birthday song. Maj Gen Vos recalled every miniature detail when he was requested to do a recap of Wednesday's proceedings to the delight of his colleagues. Eastern Cape Provincial Head of Corporate Communications and Liaison, Brig Thembinkosi Kinana, shared a presentation with the delegates about Corporate Communications work like  public perception, dealing with negative publicity and it's impact in portraying police service and members in a negative light. The image and identity of  this organisation must be largely seen through lens of communication, he said. "This must reflect on how we conduct our business, our messages,  how we look and interact with internal and external stakeholders including the media," said Brig Kinana. Concluding his speech, he advised all affected to admit problems and begin seeking for professional help. "Love yourself and speak out," concluded Brig Kinana. The platform was given to delegated delegates to do presentations on Domestic violence, sexual harassment,  substance abuse, anger management  and suicide. The session was closed on a high note with an eloquent, relevant and we'll researched message to a very silent and attentive delegates with an adress by Free State Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Sempe. The conference is expected to conclude on Friday. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 