 Mthatha - In response to the worrying cases of rape, femicide, violence against Women and Children, Eastern Cape Premier, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, on Monday announced that he has established a multi-sectoral steering committee to implement the 100-day rapid results approach to speed up case turnaround times in the Eastern Cape province. "The task of this committee is to coordinate the work of all government structures, civil society and private sector organizations in fighting the scourge of rape, femicide and gender based violence in our province," the Premier said. "We established a team of skilled individuals drawn from diverse sectors of our province." The names of the members are as follows: "This Provincial steering committee will hit the ground running in developing the provincial program through a close collaboration with the national committee set up by the President, setting up District steering committees in all the districts and Metros of the province," Mabuyane said. "We welcome the commitment made by the national government to put in place systematic programs to address case backlogs, prioritization of adjudication of gender based violence, rape and femicide cases by the courts. "We welcome the announcement made by President Cyril Ramaphosa that National and provincial 24-hour call centres to deal with complaints against SAPS and legal officers in matters of gender-based violence are up and running, and that a target to attend to all complaints within seven days is being achieved." Mabuyane said that given the high number of rape, femicide, and gender based violence cases in the Eastern Cape province, "we welcome the project to reopen unresolved murder and sexual offences cases that has already begun in the Eastern Cape as announced by President Ramaphosa". Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 