 Port Elizabeth -  The Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium is already abuzz with a hive of activity in anticipation of the festive season, having events lined up from now well into the New Year. “This year marks the stadium’s 10th anniversary and some of the events on our calendar are aligned with celebrating our ten years of existence,” Phumulani Hlatshwayo, Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium Commercial Manager said. “Our stadium is a multi-purpose facility that not only hosts sporting events, but an array of other exciting entertainment events,” he added. “We are excited about the variety in our events calendar leading up to the festive season. Residents and holiday makers will be spoilt for choice!” remarked Hlatshwayo. During November, soccer lovers will be in for a treat when Chippa United faces off against Black Leopards. Tech fanatics can look forward to an exciting Drone Night Racing competition this month. Private functions that already took place in November included a workshop by the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA), and a Student/youth entrepreneurial convergence and enterprise development strategy for about 30 young entrepreneurs hosted by the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. Other upcoming events for this month include the Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) Awards and a luncheon hosted by the Methodist Church for 250 of its members.  ENTERTAINMENT: The Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth has hosted numerous music festivals. The highlight on the December calendar is the Bay Music Festival and the Ebubeleni Urban Concert and the Ebubeleni Music Festival. During December, soccer fans can look forward to Chippa UTD taking on Baroka FC and Supersport United.  The stadium will also have its roadshow from 02 December until 08 December for the general public and event organisers informing them of the stadium’s service offering, among other fun and exciting activities, he said. Hlatshwayo added that a highlight on the calendar is the Ebubeleni and Bay music festivals in December. Exciting public events and sports matches set to take place at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium include: “Our multi-purpose stadium offers a variety of venues, including the World of Windows with breath taking views of the North End Lake and ideal for a banquet, cocktail or even a cabaret function. The Presidential Suite can convert into a press conference venue for a media launch or a luncheon, with views of the North End Lake as well as the stadium’s inner bowl (field). The hospitality suites offer intimate spaces for hosting, entertainment and networking,” Hlatshwayo added. Main image: MULTI-PURPOSE FACILITY: The Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth is a multi-purpose facility. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 