 East London - Since Friday last week, people declared dead at accident scenes in the Butterworth district and in the Buffalo City Metro have simply been left on the side of the road for hours, because Forensic Pathology employees are on strike over unpaid overtime and standby allowances, the Democratic Alliance (DA) said on Tuesday. "According to the striking workers, the overtime and standby allowances have not been paid since the April this year, despite promises made by the Head of Department, Dr Mbengashe," said Jane Cowley (MPL),  DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Health. "The Department of Health has been forced to negotiate with private funeral parlours to collect the deceased from accident scenes while the strike continues, resulting in significant delays in retrieving the decaying corpses. "That the dignity of individuals who have tragically lost their lives, and the suffering of their families, have become a bargaining chip in a wage dispute is beyond reprehensible." Cowley said that this is a sign of a declining healthcare system that has lost sight of its core mandate of providing access to healthcare to the people of this province. "Instead, we have a system of blatant mismanagement that has resulted in spiralling medico-legal claims, mismanagement of personnel, mismanagement of finances and employment of incompetent cadres," she added. "This has resulted in a Department that is incapable of righting itself. "I have written to the MEC for Health, Sindiswa Gomba, to request that the matter of unpaid overtime be addressed as a matter of urgency so that Forensic Pathology services are restored before more of the taxpayer’s money is wasted. "Services which support the delivery of healthcare are respected and treated with the dignity they deserve." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 