 Port Elizabeth - Hours after it started, a crucial Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Meeting is yet to tackle items on the agenda, which include a motion of no confidence brought against Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor, Mongameli Bobani. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Speaker, Buyelwa Mafaya, was again forced to adjourn proceedings as there were differences over how to proceed following the first adjournment. The African National Congress (ANC), through chief whip, Bicks Ndoni, submmitted that Council first deals with the letter received from Eastern Cape MEC of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA), Xolile Nqatha. The Cogta is expected to start a Section 139 intervention in the Bay after a deision last week by the Eastern Cape Provincial Government. However, the Democratic Alliance (DA) objected, saying that the majority of the parties had agreed that Council should proceed with items on the agenda. The first item on the agenda the motion of no confidence against Bobani - and not the letter from Cogta. Ndoni also noted that the debate on the appointment of permanant Executive Directors in the Metro was also more important that the motion of no confidence agansit Bobani. The ANC subsequently announced its withdrawal from the petition that necessitated the debate on the motion to remove Bobani as Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor. Bickering among the Councillors continued. Despite her presence in the Council Chambers, there was also a request from some Councillors for a debate on the recent appointment of Acting City Manager, Nobuntu Mgogoshe, which some councillors feel was done illegally. Mafaya then adjourned the meeting once again saying that she wanted to meet with the chief whips of the various parties. When Council resumed, it then emerged that the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the African Independent Congress (AIC) had subsequently joined the ANC in withdrawing from the petition to remove Bobani. Thus, the fifth motion of no confidence against Bobani as Nelson Mandela Bay mayor looks set to fall away. Perhaps Bobani knew very well that the motion would not succeed after all. In the morning, he promised he would still be Mayor after the Council Meeting. At the time of writing, Mafaya had left the Council Chambers to seek legal advice following the withdrawal of the ANC AIC amd EFF from the petition to remove Bobani. More to follow... Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 