 Port Elizabeth - Being a police officer is not just about fighting crime and arresting suspects. Sometimes the South African Police Service needs to be compassionate and show that we really care about the safety of our community even more so when the client in need of assistance is an senior citizen. "On Monday, at approximately 22:50, an employee from a bus company came to Mount Road with an elderly lady, Thembeka Mbeki (66 yers old), who was confused, due to the time of night, he did not want to leave her alone and asked the members at Mount Road police station to assist in tracing her relatives," explained police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse van Rensburg. "Constable Babalwa Makaula took it upon herself to assist. "She interviewed Mbeki and she gave her cell phone to the constable and through accessing her contacts, she managed to trace Mbeki’s son, Thobile Mbeki, who is from Durban." Mbeki informed the Cst Makaula that his mom was fine when she left Durban and she was going to visit family in Port Elizabeth. "Unfortunately, Mr Mbeki had not contacted the family that his mom was going to visit in Port Elizabeth. "Cst Makaula ensured Mr Mbeki that she will take care of his mother during the night and make arrangements in the morning for her to return to Durban," said Capt Janse van Rensburg. "Cst Makaula went off duty and asked Cst Mthunzi Hanabe to assist during the day on Tuesday." Cst Hanabe contacted the bus company and explained the situation to them and they did not hesitate to assist. "The members made arrangements and took Mrs Mbeki to the bus company's head office, where arrangements were made for her safe return to Durban the same evening." Cst Makaula was informed on Wednesday morning that Mama Mbeki was safe and reunited with her son. "Mr Mbeki expressed his gratitude towards the Mount Road SAPS and the members involved in making sure that his mother was safe while she was not in a position to take care of herself," Capt Janse van Rensburg added. "These actions of our members help to restore the faith and trust within our community and we need to salute the members involved and thanked them for showing that we care for our senior citizens." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 