 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay music lovers are in for a musical feast served by some of the Bay’s most talented musos with this year’s Isisusa Concert on Friday. Set to take place at the Port Elizabeth Opera House under the theme “honouring the living legends”, Isisusa will be headlined by local musicians Lilitha Bidla and Asanda Mqiki and feature a host of other talented Bay musos. The show will be preceded the launch of Government Zini’s book, Jazz Notes, at the Opera House’s upper foyer at 5pm, with a book sale and signing opportunity afforded during the interval and after the show. The show, spearheaded Nelson Mandela University’s Department of Arts, Culture and Heritage (ACH), is hosted in collaboration with the provincial Department of Sports Recreation Arts and Culture (ECDSRAC) and the PE Opera House. “An awarding of five Living Legends will take place at this year’s show, recognising the artists for their contributions to various genres in the arts,” says ACH deputy director, Michael Barry. Since its inception 2008, the annual Isisusa concert has grown to be a flagship event on the city’ music lovers’ calendars. It has been held under various themes to date, including women, unity and healing, homages to legends; while showing off the finest of Nelson Mandela Bay’s musical talents. The idea behind the show’s conception was to celebrate the Bay’s local musical successes and also to marry this with creating a platform for talented students to be exposed to them and grow. This year, the theme of the show was inspired by Government Zini’s book, titled Jazz Notes.Zini is well-known in the local arts scene, having worked as a columnist for numerous local newspapers, such as The Herald,Evening Post,New Mirror and Ilizwi. He has rubbed shoulders with local and international musicians. Homegrown singers will perform songs from some of the artists featured in the book, including Miriam Makeba, Welcome Duru, Nomfundo Xaluva, Sipho ‘Hotstix’ Mabuse. Local performers include Lesego Mkhwanazi, Cailan van Heerden, Melikhaya Xotyeni, Nomabotwe Mtimkulu, Lovechild and Siphosethu Yekeni. The treat of an orchestra conducted by Mandela University’s Gareth Williams will accompany all singers and include some instrumental tributes. Show information is as follows: Date– 29th November 2019 Venue- PE Opera House Time- 7pm Price –R100 general and R50 pensioners and student – Available at the Opera House on the day Jazz Notes, by Government Ziniwill be on sale at R250 Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 