 Port Elizabeth - Three suspects are again expected in court on Monday for their formal bail application after they were arrested for the robbery and murder of two elderly women at the St John Stella Londt Retirement Centre in Port Elizabeth in October. This is after two of the accused pleaded guilty to charges of money laundering. The five accusedappeared once again in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates’ Court on Friday. "Two accused namely, Panganai Mike Mabwe (27) pleaded guilty to money laundering under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act 121 of 1998 (POCA) and was sentenced to R5 000 fine or 12 months imprisonment and 3 years imprisonment suspended for 3 years and Craig Nyasha Madiro (20) pleaded guilty to money laundering under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act 121 of 1998(POCA) and was sentenced to 3 years imprisonment suspended for 3 years," said police spokespersson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The two accused were in possession of the stolen cellphones belonging to one of the deceased woman." On the 10th of October, at about 05:45, staff found two elderly women murdered in separate rooms at a Retirement Centre in Stella Londt Drive in Port Elizabeth. "It is further alleged that during the early hours of the morning, unknown number of suspects entered the premises through an unlocked door and trellie door on the upper level of the main building in the complex," Col Naidu said. "The suspects entered the first room where they confronted Ms Agnes Elaine Burns, 91 years old. She was found on the bed with her feet and hands tied and her mouth gagged. The room was ransacked. "The suspects then entered another room further down the passage where they then confronted Ms Rosemary Langton (87). She, too was found with hands and feet tied and mouth gagged. Her room was also ransacked. "Police believe robbery to be the motive. Kruger rands, elite watches, gold rings and a wedding ring with a precious stone as well as other jewellery and two cellphones were taken." A team of investigators led by the Mount Road Cluster Detective Head, Colonel Paul Orange, with the assistance of the Hawks and the National Prosecuting Authority worked tirelessly throughout the days and nights in an attempt to make a breakthrough. "On 18 October 2019, five suspects (one female and four males) were arrested within the Port Elizabeth area. Some of the items were recovered from a suspect in the Kuyga area. The female suspect Nomgebisi Slangveld, aged 34, was a carer at the retirement home and was on duty during the alleged murders," Col Naidu said. "Nomgebisi Slangveld, Mkhuseli Damaneti (30) and Nyasha Manyange (33) remain in custody and will appear in court again on Monday for a formal bail application. They are detained on charges of murder." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 