 Port Elizabeth - The arrest of a local taxi owner with 69 warrants of arrest for outstanding traffic fines, is part of the Safety and Security Festive Season plan that includes roadblocks and home visits, said Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Head of Traffic and Licensing, Warren Prins. “The 33-year-old man, whose outstanding fines and warrants are a staggering R160 000, appeared in the Municipal Traffic Court on Tuesday and was released on R2 000 bail. “The suspect has been evading the traffic department for months and was finally tracked down at his house over the weekend. “The Port Elizabeth man is one of the top 50 suspects with warrants of arrest for outstanding traffic fines. “I am confident that his arrest will send a clear message to those with outstanding traffic fines that we are coming for them even if we have to knock on their doors. “We will continue to track down the 49 other suspects with intensified efforts at roadblocks and home visits. “We will continue tracking the other 49 suspects. However, this does not mean we will not take action against you if your name does not appear on this unenviable list,” Mr Prins said. Between 18 and 24 November, speed cameras in 60 kilometre zones recorded an average speed of 92 kilometres and a highest speed of 134 kilometres. The highest speed in a 70 kilometres per hour zones was 119 kilometres and the average speed 87 kilometres per hour. In 80 kilometres per hour zones, the highest speed recorded was 160 kilometres per hour and 87 kilometres per hour on average. Mr Prins said plans are afoot to address the callous lawlessness on Nelson Mandela Bay roads as it put the lives of law-abiding motorists and pedestrians in jeopardy. “We need to make sure that the average speed in all these zones are drastically reduced,” Prins added. Meanwhile the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Metro Police manned a roadblock in Uitenhage with mostly female officers under the leadership of Metro Police Chief Yolande Faro to herald in the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children. The arrested drunken driver and the driver of suspected stolen vehicle most likely failed to see the significance of the female contingent as they both ended up in hot water. Fire and Emergency Services are currently busy with fire safety checks at hospitality establishments and will also focus on crèches, schools and clinics next week. The Integrated Operational Coordinating Committee (IOCC) chaired by Safety and Security Executive Director, Adv. Keith Meyer, monitors operations on a weekly basis to assess effectiveness and the need for iteration. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 