 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) on Wednesday said that it will establish Parliamentary task team to save Nelson Mandela Bay from collapse. "The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is on the verge of collapse," said John Steenhuisen MP - DA Parliamentary Leader. "The City has been brought to its knees by the UDM’s Mayor, Cllr Mongameli Bobani, and his coalition of corruption consisting of the UDM, ANC, AIC, PA and the United Front. "Since his election as Mayor in September 2018, Nelson Mandela Bay has regressed on all governance, financial and service delivery indicators." Steenhuisen added that a controversial drain cleaning tender awarded in December 2018, commonly known as the ‘Great Drain Heist’, has allegedly been linked to the killings of at least 18 people. "It is strongly suspected that these killings are politically motivated in a City now governed by fear and retribution," he described. "To make matters worse Day Zero has arrived in parts of Nelson Mandela Bay with dam levels at critically low levels and no plan from the Mayor to deal with this crisis." Steenhuisen said that between September 2018 to present, "the coalition of corruption has devastated" the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality: He said in stark contrast, the DA-led government achieved the following successes between 2016 and 2018: "The DA has written to President Ramaphosa, the Minister for COGTA, the Premier of the Eastern Cape and MECs yet our please have fallen on deaf ears," Steenhuisen described. "The situation in NMB is a national crisis which threatens to destabilize a major Metropolitan Municipality and the ANC government has failed to provide leadership. "Considering the critical situation in NMB I will be convening a task team of DA Members of Parliament to focus on interventions that can rescue Nelson Mandela Bay from the coalition of corruption." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 