 Port Elizabeth - The Port Elizabeth office of the South African Weather Service on Wednesday said that the 70 mm measured at Kareedouw is fantastic news for Nelson Mandela Bay dams. However, the 14 mm reported from the Joubertina catchent area is disappointing. "Any figure above 50 mm over the entire catchment area does make a difference to dam levels, however, with the poor figure at Joubertina we will have to wait a few days before the inflow affects our dam levels," said Garth Sampson, the SA Weather Service's Client Liaison Officer for the Eastern Cape. "It must be noted that the majority of the water will flow into the Churchill which would then have to overflow to make a marked difference to the Impofu (which is too low to extract water from using conventional means) "It is disappointing that Kouga Dam itself only received 1.2 mm and only 1.8 mm was measured at Patensie." Sampson added; "So, as one can see, the drought is NOT broken and this is NO reason to celebrate and to ease our endeavours to use water sparingly. "It must be noted that with the influx of tourists to the city and the other coastal towns like Jeffreys (which also feed off the same dams) over December will increase  consumption and put a further strain on our system." He said that rain is still expected intermittently along the south coast and adjacent interior up until Friday. Nelson Mandela Bay  AWOS Port Elizabeth Airport 4.4 ARS 3rd Ave Dip 10.4 ARS Blue Horizon Bay * ARS Chatty 0.8 AWS Coega NIL AWSH Fettes Road 2.8 ARS Flower Reserve 4.4 AWSH Motherwell * ARS Riverstone Bridge 14.0 ARS St Albans 18.4 AWS Uitenhage 0.2 Man Woodridge 25.6 Catchment  AWS Joubertina 14.0 ARS Kareedouw 51.4 Man Kareedouw 70.5 Man Kouga Dam 1.2 AWS Patensie 1.8    Other Towns  AWS Addo * AWS Bisho/KWT 29.0 AWS Cape St Francis 5.4 AWS Cradock NIL AWS East London 5.2 AWS Fort Beaufort NIL AWS George 17.8 AWS Graaff Reinet NIL AWS Grahamstown NIL AWS Henry`s Flats 1.4 AWS Joubertina 14.0 AWS Mossel Bay * AWS Mthatha 5.2 AWS Plettenberg bay 11.6 AWS Port Alfred 2.8 AWS Queenstown NIL * no contact 0.0 = Drops Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 