 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bombani, on Monday said the outcry by Nelson Mandela Bay crowds, who lined routes from early on Sunday despite inclement weather conditions did not fall on deaf ears. “This afternoon [Monday] a delegation, led by former ANC MPL, Christian Martin, representing the Northern Areas and the Khoi-San community, came to my office to raise their concerns and fears of marginalisation," Bobani said. “Our municipal Facebook page was filled with sad stories of terminally ill people, children and people from all walks of life who had to return home disappointed due to a last minute route change. “I was assured by municipal officials that they did not make the call for this to happen and that all the relevant stakeholders played a role during the planning stages of the event."  Humble apologies to the northern areas of PE today who missed out on our planned visit. Massive crowds, congestion and a waiting flight to Cape Town meant an unavoidable last minute route change. We are as disappointed as you, and we do apologise sincerely.#ChampionsTogether pic.twitter.com/2aG7cUUjZb The Mayor further said; “I further noticed an apology from the Springboks that was widely circulated on social media following the changes on Sunday. “I am in the process of writing a letter to the South African Rugby Union (SARU) to amplify the impact of the outcry and for them to consider the disappointment of the residents who lined streets in Uitenhage, the Northern Areas, and William Moffett but had to return home disappointed and dejected." Bobani said that he will instruct officials to communicate the feedback from SARU in due course as they are the only authority that can remedy this matter. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 