 East London - Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Management on Monday said that they had learnt with shock the passing away of a Police Officer, whose life was claimed by a tragic accident, which occurred on Sunday night, near New Rest Locality, in Chalumna. "Reports suggest that the vehicle (a Double Cab) in which the officer was traveling at the time, hit the straying cow," described police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "From there, it veered towards and subsequently hit a Bus Stop Wall shelter. "As a result, it is believed that it caught fire due to the impact." Three of the five occupants of the vehicle in which the officer was, sustained serious injuries and were rushed to a nearby hospital for medical care, whilst two - including the policeman, succumbed to fire injuries and could not be rescued as they were trapped inside the car. The 55-year-old Captain, whose identity may not be divulged at this stage until the next of kin have been informed, was stationed at Mdantsane Police Station. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, expressed shock and dismay at what she described as “unfortunate and tragic occurrence which has robbed the SAPS of one of its commissioned officers”. “We are saddened by this terrific news, and May his soul Rest In Peace,” Lt Gen Ntshinga said. Details regarding his final resting place will be announced soon and once the family has decided on the funeral arrangements. Lt General Ntshinga concluded by calling on all the road users to exercise tolerance and restraint during this busy period of the Festive Season. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 