 Port Elizabeth - Construction of the 40-meter new generation materials composite bridge over the lower Baakens River has finally reached completion. This bridge project which is part of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality approved Baakens Valley Masterplan aims to connect the inner city and the Baakens Valley area while enhancing the region with a specific landmark structure. Leadership from both the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, MBDA Board, various civil society and community interest groups are expected to grace the official opening on Tuesday night. “The completion of this iconic landmark and strategic intervention in urban renewal is being completed at a time when the MBDA concluded a major organisational restructuring process as well as battling a lack of funding for 2019/20," says MBDA Spokesperson Luvuyo Bangazi. "The aim of restructuring the organisation was to ensure that we maximized capacity through a semi matrix structure between the key delivery departments that fall under Operations, including, engineering, area management, creative industry, psychosocial officers, quantity surveyors, town rangers, SMME mentors, community facilitators, facilities management, project managers and urban designers. “The local government financial cycle starts on July 1st till 30th June, so November is the second month of quarter two and the Agency is still to receive grant funding for the year from the NMBM owing to an unsigned Service Delivery Agreement. “With all those challenges, the MBDA through fiscal discipline has been able to ride the storm, pay suppliers and small, medium, micro-enterprises and still deliver world-class services to Nelson Mandela Bay." After much public engagements to solicit suggestions for the name of the bridge, residents have only a few hours to find out the outcome, this after an independent panel of adjudicators deliberated on a suitable name for the bridge. This selection panel comprised of Ward 5 Councillor, Sandile Rwexana, PR Councillor, Andries van der Westhuizen, South End Museum Administrator, Collin Abrahams and Mr S. Abraham, a community representative. Bay citizens heeded the call and the response was overwhelming, with 222 submissions received. These ranged from sports heroes to historical, local and national icons. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 