 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape police have strongly condemned two separate fatal shooting incidents involving taxi industry bosses that took place within 24 hours in Mthatha and Port Elizabeth respectively on Monday and Tuesday. "It is alleged that the 39-year-old taxi owner and Chairperson of one of the Taxi Associations was found dead with bullet wounds at Lindile locality, in Mthatha, on Monday, at about 23:00," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "The deceased was on his way home when he was shot by unknown assailants. "He managed to flee from his vehicle to a nearby house where he succumbed to his injuries." In another incident, a 43-year-old taxi boss was fatally wounded after dropping off his child at a school in Mimosa Road in Fairview, Port Elizabeth, on Tuesday morning. "It is alleged that at about 08:00, the 35-year-old wife walked their child into the school," Brig Kinana said. "Upon returning to the vehicle where the husband was waiting, just before they could drive off, an unknown person approached the vehicle and fired a shot through the driver’s side. "Another unknown person also approached and fired more shots. "Both suspects got into a waiting white VW Polo and sped off." He said that the man sustained gunshot wounds to his upper body and died on the scene. "The wife was not injured but was taken to hospital." The motive for both incidents is unknown and police will not speculate. No arrests have been made as yet in both incidents. “We committed ourselves to uproot taxi violence and to arrest those in the taxi industry who have no regard for law and order,” said the Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga. Anyone who can assist the police investigation with any information can contact Capt Xolile Mdepa on 082 301 8754 (Mthatha incident) or Lt Col Willy Mayi on 082 697 5914 / 071 059 0005 (Port Elizabeth incident). "Information can be shared on SAPS Crime Stop 08600 10111 or any nearest police station. All information will be treated with strictest confidence. Callers can also remain anonymous should they wish to." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 