 Port Elizabeth - The Department of Water and Sanitation is appealing to all water users in the Eastern Cape to work with government in raising awareness about acute water availability in most parts of the province. A weekly report released by the Department of Water and Sanitation paints bleak picture of the available water in some areas of the province and a consistent decline of major dams. "The provincial water storage has declined to 49.6%. This is a sharp decline compared to the same period last year when water levels in the province were at 63.7%," Sputnik Ratau, Spokesperson for the Department said. "This decline calls for all sectors of society to double their efforts in reducing the manner in which they consume water and inculcate the culture of saving the available water resources. "Areas where drought is severe are Amathole District, Chris Hani District, Joe Gqabi District, Nelson Mandela Metro and Sarah Baartman District. "The Amathole Water Supply Sysytem with dams supplying water to Buffalo City and surrounding areas has declined alarmingly to 48.1% as compared to the same period last when it was at 75.7%." Ratau said that some of the major dams in the system such as Rooinkrantz Dam declined to 33.6% this week, compared to 35.3% last week, Sandile Dam decrease to 32.5% this week, from last week, and Wriggleswade Dam also decline to 40.1% this week, compared to 42.9% last week. "Dams such as Macubeni, Waterdown and Oxkraal Dam are declining week on week," he added. "The Algoa Water Supply System supplying water to areas such a Nelson Mandela Bay has dwindled to 34.9%, a far cry compared to 54.5% during the same period last year. "Kouga Dam declined to 34.3% this week compared to 54.3% in previous year at this time, Impofu Dam is at a paltry 16.6% this week, while Loerie Dam dropped from 53.3% last week to 48.5% this week. "Government in all spheres, entities, sector partners, civic society organisations, faith based organisations, businesses, schools are urged to work together in ensuring the that the province does not run out of water." Ratau said that the Department of Water and Sanitation has started working with Amathole District Municipality in distributing water tankers in the drought stricken Butterworth area as an immediate relief. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 