 Port Elizabeth - A sixth suspect was arrested by Port Elizabeth police on Tuesday afternoon for the alleged murders and robberies of the two elderly women at the Stella Londt Retirement Home in October 2019. "Detectives arrested the 31-year-old suspect in the Walmer, Port Elizabeth," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "He is detained on two murder, two House robbery; two kidnapping and conspiracy to commit robbery charges." The suspect is expected in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Thursday. "It is alleged that on Thursday, 10 October, at about 05:45, staff found two elderly women murdered in separate rooms at a Retirement Centre in Stella Londt Drive in Port Elizabeth," said Col Naidu. "It is further alleged that during the early hours of the morning, unknown number of suspects entered the premises through an unlocked door and trellie door on the upper level of the main building in the complex. "The suspects entered the first room where they confronted Ms Agnes Elaine Burns, 91 years old. She was found on the bed with her feet and hands tied and her mouth gagged. The room was ransacked. "The suspects then entered another room further down the passage where they then confronted Ms Rosemary Langton (87). She too was found with hands and feet tied and mouth gagged. Her room was also ransacked." Col Naidu said that Kruger rands, elite watches, gold rings and a wedding ring with a precious stone as well as other jewellery and a cellphone were taken. She said that a team of investigators led by the Mount Road Cluster Detective Head, Colonel Paul Orange, with the assistance of the Hawks and the National Prosecuting Authority worked tirelessly throughout the following days and nights in an attempt to make a breakthrough. "On 18 October, five suspects (one female and four males) were arrested within the Port Elizabeth area. Some of the items were recovered from a suspect in the Kuyga area," Col Naidu said. "The female suspect, aged 34 was a carer at the retirement home and was on duty during the alleged murders." Col Naidu said that all five suspects appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Friday, 8 November. "Two accused namely Panganai Mike Mabwe (27) pleaded guilty to money laundering under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act 121 of 1998 (POCA) and was sentenced to R5 000 fine or 12 months imprisonment and 3 years imprisonment suspended for 3 years and Craig Nyasha Madiro (20) pleaded guilty to money laundering under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act 121 of 1998 (POCA) and was sentenced to 3 years imprisonment suspended for 3 years." The two accused had been found in possession of the stolen cellphones belonging to one of the deceased woman. Col Naidu said that the other accused, Nombebisi Slangveld (34), Mkhuseli Damaneti (30) and Nyasha Manyange (33) remain in custody. "They are charged with two murder, two House robbery, two kidnapping and conspiracy to commit robbery charges." On Monday, 25 November, Damaneti and Manyange abandoned their bail applications while bail was denied for Slangveld. "Their next court appearance is on 20 January 2020." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 