 Thornhill - Police in Thornhill have launched a search for four armed male suspects, who allegedly fired several shots at a father (57) and his 18-year-old son whilst they were inside their home in Thornhill on Monday night. The incident happened at about 20:30. "It is alleged that the father and son were inside the house when they suddenly heard gunshots being fired at them and stones being thrown through the windows of their home," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "The two managed to run to the bedroom and activate the alarm. "During the process the father was hit by one of the bullets in his leg." She said that it is believed that the noise of the alarm scared the perpetrators and they fled on foot from the house in the direction of the N2. "No items were taken during the attack and the family managed to alert their security company and the SAPS." Capt Swart said that Thornhill SAPS detectives are investigating a case of attempted murder and are following up on all possible leads. "No arrests were made as yet and anyone who might be able to assist with any information that could lead to the arrest of the four suspects are requested to contact Detective Constable Chandre Aweries on 0824418150 or SAPS Thornhill on 042 286 6200/08." She said that anyone, who has any information on crime are requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. "Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality.  The MySAPS app is also available for South African citizens to download onto their smartphones from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 