 King Williams Town - As a build up to the up and coming Annual Service Excellence Awards to be held on Thursday at the East London ICC by Eastern Cape South African Police Service (SAPS), 41 police members were handed commendation certificates as part of the quarterly Performance Management Forum (PMF) on Monday. "The recipients were drawn from nominations and recommendations from various components that offer a variety of specialisations in the employ of SAPS in the Eastern Cape Province," said police spokesperson, Capt Khaya Tonjeni. "The member stopped and instinctively ran towards the suspect," said Capt Tonjeni. "Not taking much caution about his personal safety, he fortunately overpowered the suspect and recovered the victim's cellphone from the perpetrator. "An angry community mob wanted to attack and avenge the victim but the member also managed to protect the suspect from the angry mob. The 31-year-old male suspect was arrested and detained at Cambridge SAPS." Cap Tonjeni said that the members apprehended one suspect and recovered three firearms - two pistols and one rifle. "Three more suspects were arrested and positively linked to the robbery. All the items robbed were recovered." Capt Tonjeni said that he made a U-turn and assisted with the chase of robbers, who were later arrested with the help of a backup, resulting in recovery of one unlicensed firearm in the process. "Diving is a scarce skill and a minimum of 10 weeks is needed for their basic training. They assist in incidents of drowning, recovering exhibits, water related rescues as well as attending organised water events like Iron Man," said Capt Tonjeni. "During festive season our divers conduct diving duties on voluntary services. They are also on constant standby and get called out to Water policing and diving scenes at any time of day and night. "Due to the fact that diving is a secondary function, members are always utilised on their rest days to attend urgent complaints. Members travel water policing complaints and diving requests in rural areas where they sometimes have to travel up to 800 km in a day to attend to urgent complaints." He said that in 2018/2019, they attended 209 diving operations, recovered 150 bodies, 33 rescue operations and rescued 42 people. "A lot of detectives were also recognised for an indelible mark in investigations, recovering of illegal weapons and sentencing of a variety of offenders," Capt Tonjeni added. "Captain Du Rand represented Saps and took fifth position in the recent (IBFF) International Body building competition in Johannesburg." "She took the victims to her apartment, gave them water and food ensuring that they are safe and their damaged vehicle is attended. She showed humanity and became a good ambassador for our century old organisations," said Capt Tonjeni. "These are some of the few who were nominated for being exemplary, brave, reliable and being an epitome of quality service excellence, Batho Pele and exemplary service oriented proud patriots and commendable member of the service." The members were given Commendation certificates and encouraged to, "continue to do more, do better while being a shining example of high quality SAPS service," said Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. The Excellence Awards are the epitome of continuing to foster a culture of excellence in the SAPS through recognising, rewarding and motivating the police force's most precious assets – its human resources, as they continue to be ambassadors of the Batho Pele principles. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 