 East Londoon - Condolences have been pouring in following the passing away of AmaXhosa King Mpendulo 'Ah Zwelonke' Sigcawu on Thursday. While many took to social media to express their condolences, the African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape said it learnt with great shock and a profound sense of loss on the passing away of the AmaXhosa King in hospital after a short illness. "King Sigcawu's passing is not only a major loss to AmaXhosa Kingdom but to the ANC and the province as a whole," said Lulama Ngcukayitobi, ANC Eastern Cape Provincial Secretary. 'He was a true democrat who facilitated for all political parties to have freedom of expression in the AmaXhosa Kingdom. "King Sigcawu was an embodiment of Unity, Progress and Hope for his people, capable of working with diverse political strands and accomodative of different views. "We would like to pay tribute to King Mpendulo Sigcawu for his warmth and support he gave to the ANC family over the years. We are indebted to him because he was a pillar of strength over the years, and always available to give us guidance without fail." Ngcukayitobi said that party extends its deepest and heartfelt condolences to the Royal family and the entire Xhosa Nation. "This loss is not only felt by his people, but it has touched the nerve of the entire populace of the Eastern Cape. Your loss is our loss," he added. "To the Sigcawu family, warriors for the emancipation of all our people in all their echelons, regardless of race and colour, and gender and age, and ability and geographic domicile, we say, humbly and with passion akuhlanga lungehlanga ma - Tshawe : le nto kakade yinto yalonto! And thus do we say, death be not proud! "Hamba Zwelonke uxolile uMzantsi Africa. Goduka Kumkani, siyabulela isizwe. Amanyange neminyanya akwamkele. "Lala ngoxolo Tshawe! "Ah Zwelonke." Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga, said that his party is saddened to hear about the sudden, unforeseen passing of amaXhosa king, Mpendulo Zwelonke Sigcawu, and would like to extend our heartfelt condolences to his family, loved ones and the Xhosa nation. "King Zwelonke Sigcawu had been king of the amaXhosa since the death of his father, King Xolilizwe Sigcawu, in 2005, and was declared the legitimate king of all amaXhosa in 2010," Bhnaga said. "He was sworn in as king of the amaXhosa nation in Nqadu Great Place in the Eastern Cape in 2015, the first coronation of an amaXhosa king in 50 years. "King Sigcawu worked tirelessly towards improving the lives of his people through the establishment of the King Zwelonke Legacy Projects." He added that King Sigcawu was committed to nation building, uplifting the poor and marginalised rural communities of the Eastern Cape and worked towards eradicating poverty and empowering people with skills. "He had focused his work in the sectors of education, health, agriculture, heritage and tourism," Bhanga said. "He will forever remain in our thoughts and memories for his contribution in building a united community. "Our thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends as well as the Xhosa Nation. "Lala ngoxolo mntan’omgquba! Aaaaaah Zwelonke!" The PEC of South African National Civic Organization (SANCO) in the Eastern Cape said it learnt with sadness and unbearable anguish of the passing of the AmaXhosa King, King Zwelonke Mpendulo Sigcawu. "News reports say he was rushed to hospital overnight where he took his last breath. SANCO mourns with the AmaXhosa Nation and all the people of our beautiful province of the Eastern Cape in the sudden demise of the King," said SANCO Eastern Cape Acting Provincial Chairperson, Mike Basopu. "King Zwelonke Sigcawu had been king of the AmaXhosa since the death of his father, King Xolilizwe Sigcawu, in 2005. He was sworn in as king of the AmaXhosa nation in Nqadu Great Place in the Eastern Cape in 2015, the first coronation of an AmaXhosa king in 50 years. "He took on that role on 1 January 2006. Zwelonke was born to Xolilizwe Mzikayise Sigcawu and Nozamile." Basopu said that in 2010, he was declared legitimate king of all AmaXhosa by President Jacob Zuma, following a determination by the Commission on Traditional Leadership Disputes and Claims, also known as the Nhlapo Commission, which probed the authenticity of traditional leaders in South Africa. "We are deeply saddened by this news and would like to pay our utmost respect to his immediate family and the whole Eastern Cape, to whom he was exercising authority to the majority of IsiXhosa speakers. "Our hearts are bowing in deference to the AmaXhosa Royal House in Nqadu Great Place and we urge all Xhosa-speakers to observe a mourning period for Our King," he added. "Aaahhh!!! Zwelonke!!! Lala Ngoxolo Mdange, Tshiwo, Nkosi Yamntu, Ngcwangu." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  