 Port Elizabeth - Transnet National Ports Authority’s (TNPA) Port of Ngqura celebrated Youth Day yesterday by opening its doors to local learners through its Take a Girl Child to Work Day initiative. By combining these two commemorative events, the port not only gave young women insight into port operations, but also exposed them to a wide range of career opportunities offered. “We are responding to the country’s call for developing future leaders, aligned with our human capital strategy in a port environment. At the same time we are showcasing the port’s leading role in the main stream economy,” said Tandi Lebakeng, Port Manager of the Port of Ngqura. Young female professionals were aptly selected as mentors to guide the learners through key areas in the port such as Civil Engineering and Marine services. The programme kicked off with a breakfast and an overview of the port before learners broke away for job shadowing experiences in different departments. The day was concluded with a lunch, feedback from learners and a certificate handing-over ceremony. The 13 girls who attended the programme represented both the port’s adopted school, Cingani High School and employees’ children. To participate in TNPA’s programme for the day girls must be in grades 9 to 12 and studying English, Pure Mathematics and Physical Science at high school level, as these are required for many of the mission critical roles in the maritime industry. Nationally TNPA has heeded the call to align this year’s Take a Girl Child to Work Day with Cell C’s 2019 theme of #MoreThanADay, which encourages participating companies to extend their support to girls to more than a 24-hour window. TNPA’s head office and eight ports are hosting girls over a two-month period in May and June. TNPA has supported this initiative since inception and has seen the number of participants growing steadily over the past 16 years.  Through various TNPA programmes aimed at promoting gender equality and women’s development, women are increasingly taking up key operational roles traditionally filled by men, such as dredge masters, tug masters and marine pilots, as well as senior leadership roles. The girls hosted by TNPA include a combination of employees’ children and previously disadvantaged learners from schools including the authority’s adopted schools and CSI beneficiaries across the country. Image: Sibusiso Manengele (Trainee Tug Master demonstrates the workings of a tug in the port. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 