 East London - Quick thinking by an East London Detective saved the life of a man, who had just hanged himself. "D/Sgt Tyutu was in her office busy with her dockets when she decided to phone a 39-year-old complainant to give him a progress report regarding his case that she is investigating," said police spokesperson, Captain Hazel Mqala. "She phoned him and he picked up, but he was crying and informed the detective that he is killing himself because his wife is cheating on him and the phone went off." Capt Mqala said that immediately, the detective went to her commander, Lt Col Mkupa, who was in his office and explained this to him. She phoned again and gave the phone to the Colonel, who also spoke with the complainant. He was still crying and she tried to establish his whereabouts and he mentioned Berea. However, the Detective didn't hear the address properly and when she phoned again, the phone was not picked up. "She started to panic phoned one of his friend, who is a witness in this case and asked him where the man stays and was given the correct address and the direction in Berea." Capt Mqala said that a Sgt Vantyi and the Detective rushed to the house where they found his friend, who took them straight to his room. "On their arrival, the gate was not locked. They entered the house, whiich was also not locked and they looked for him, calling his name," she said. "His friend found him hanging on the roof with a rope in his neck. D/Sgt Tyutu gave Sgt Vantyi a knife and he managed to cut the rope. "The man was still alive and they called the ambulance, which took him to Frere Hospital where he received treatment." Capt Mqala said that a case of Attempted Suicide would be registered with the senior prosecutor's office for a decision. The East London Acting Cluster Commander, Brigadier David Kanuka, commended the members for their prompt response to this incident as they saved someone's life. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 