 Port Elizabeth - The leader in records and information management in South Africa, Metrofile has a new Account Manager for their Port Elizabeth branch, Fezeka Magavu. Business Link magazine set out to learn more about her and what she is able to offer the company and its clients. “I was born and bred in Umthatha; attended my school in Umthatha and moved to Port Elizabeth in 2008 to complete my tertiary education,” Magavu says. “I studied Marketing at Nelson Mandela University and completed my studies in 2012.” She says after her graduation, she joined the Environmental Services industry for five years dealing predominantly with the automotive, hospitality, construction, engineering and state-owned industries. “I was then recruited by Merand Corbett and Associates beginning 2019 and the rest is history.” For Magavu some of the highlights in her career to date has been working with clients and helping to find solutions to their needs. “My love of good customer service and excellence has opened doors for me, how I continuously build lasting relationships with my clients whom I deal with on a daily basis,” she says. “They become my second family and I have no doubt that the same notion will be with our Metrofile clients.” Speaking about her role at the company, Magavu describes; “I have been appointed as an Account Manager at Metrofile. My role comprises of finding new business, nurturing and growing the existing client base. “It in-depth involves meeting and exceeding client’s expectations while providing them with an excellent service.” We asked her about what she considers the best or worst business advice that she has ever received: “Best advice was the ‘TANSTAAFL’ principle in economics [also called There Ain't No Such Thing As A Free Lunch adage]. That opened my eyes on the notion that nothing is free and the worst would have to be the notion that the client is always right.” Magavu says Metrofile is in a league of its own when it comes to providing document storage, management and information management to companies. “As an account manager, I can add that we also have the ability to provide the client with a ‘one-stop solution’ and excellent service from records management to electronic backups and safe destruction,” she explains. We asked her how, as a working woman, she juggles the office and her family/home? “I would say it lies in the ability to balance everything in life. When I get to Metrofile my attention, focus and energy is drawn to my work; when I am at home, I try my best to rest and recharge to be ready for the next day /venture at work,” Magavu says. She adds that away from the office, if the weather is good, she is often out with her friends. To other women in business, Magavu advises; “Ladies anything you put your mind to, you can achieve!” For more information, find Metrofile Port Elizabeth along Kohler Street, perseverance, Port Elizabeth or call 041 463 1916; email portelizabeth@metrofile.co.za visit us on www.metrofile.com today. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 