 Port Elizabetth - Blogging is a great way to show the personality behind your brand and to connect with your customers online. With added benefits such as increased exposure and search engine optimization, it's crucial to ensure that every blog article is the best it can be. Though blogging can be tricky business, these eight free resources will help make it a breeze! The first step in blogging is to find out what your audience is actually searching for. Google’s free keyword planner will help you do just that. By entering a list of words, phrases or URLs related to your business, this handy tool is able to provide a range of keyword suggestions which you can then use to make informed decisions about potential topics. For those times when your creative juices aren’t flowing as freely, blog idea generators will give you some much-needed inspiration. A few of our favourites are those available from HubSpot, Impact and Portent. Simply enter one or more nouns relating to the topic you’d like to write about, and they will generate a wealth of blog post ideas in a matter of seconds. It goes without saying that your blog posts should be free of any spelling or grammar errors. As the world’s most accurate online grammar checker, Grammarly will catch any spelling or grammar mistakes before you hit publish on a post. This free resource is also available as a browser extension, so you can get helpful suggestions wherever you write online. Yoast SEO is the number one WordPress SEO plugin and for good reason. This free, user-friendly plugin will help ensure that your individual blog posts are optimized for search engines as well as your readers. This is done through features such as a readability analysis and metadata snippet, where recommendations are provided on where to make improvements. Images are an essential part of every blog. If you’re looking for great quality images that don’t cost a dime, Pixabay is the perfect place to start your search. This resource has over 1 million stock photos and videos which are free for commercial use. No graphic design skills? No problem! Canva’s drag-and-drop feature will help you create beautiful designs without any hassles. This useful graphic design tool also boasts a wide selection of templates and layouts all ready for you to choose from. Spread the word about your latest blog post with the help of Buffer, one of the more popular social media scheduling apps. Their free plan includes three social media accounts and 10 social media posts per month. By scheduling the posts to go off at certain times of the day, you can free up some time to spend focusing on other areas of your business. Publishing a post is just the beginning. The next important step is to measure its performance. Google Analytics is a fantastic free tool that will give you insight into a plethora of statistics such as the number of page visits and amount of time spent on a page. Visitor demographics such as age, gender, location and interests are also available through Google Analytics. Blogging success doesn’t happen overnight, but the reality is that many business owners simply don’t have enough time to commit to blogging regularly. This is something we can assist with at Online Innovations. Our blog writing services are available for businesses of all sizes and industries. We take care of everything from the initial keyword research and topic choice through to the writing, posting and reporting – greatly reducing the amount of time and effort on your part. Speak to our account manager, Bronwen, today on 041 365 4919 or email her at sales@onlineinnovations.com to find out more on our blog writing services. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 