 Port Elizabeth - Responding to the 2019 State of the Province Address (SOPA) delivered by Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Friday, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape dismissed it as too ambitious and built on shacky foundations. "We cannot build the Eastern Cape on a rotten foundation of corruption, poor administration and lack of consequence management," described by Nqaba Bhanga MPL - Leader of the DA in the Eastern Cape. "If Premier Oscar Mabuyane wants to build on these foundations, he first needs to rip out the rot to prevent it from spreading further. "Mabuyane’s vision, delivered today in his inaugural State of the Province Address, is ambitious and touched on the right areas but did not provide any new solutions. What is going to be done differently this term?" Bhanga said that the Premier's commitment to half the provincial unemployment rate will remain a pipe dream, unless the government embarks on fundamental economic reforms. "None of which were mentioned in the speech. "The truth is that several municipalities across the province need urgent intervention, with many unable to deliver even the most basic of services to the people," he added. "The Auditor General report this week highlighted the poor state of municipalities across the country, and this should be his first priority. Let’s get the foundation right. "If the province is to be put back on track, we need to reduce a bloated state and the public sector wage bill, not increase it further. The only posts that need to be filled should be critical posts." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  