 Bhisho - The African National Congress (ANC) Caucus in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature has welcomed the Legislature Speaker’s announcement of holding the 2019 State of the Province Address in the Legislature Chamber. ANC Eastern Cape Chairperson, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, was in elected unopposed and sworn in as the new Eastern Cape Premier. He is now scheduled to make is first State of the Province (SOPA) on The SOPA budget has reportedly been cut down from R5 million to R700 000. "This measure will go a long way towards cost-cutting and directing the much needed funds towards the core mandate of the Legislature (as outlined in Sections 114, 115 and 118 of the Constitution) which is law making, oversight and public participation," said ANC Chief Whip in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature, Loyiso Magqashela. "We appreciate that this announcement comes during a period wherein objective and subjective conditions have led to a shrinking fiscus, whilst the Eastern Cape citizenry is expectant of the 6th administration to do more work at a faster rate. It is therefore pleasing to see the Legislature leading by example in yielding greater outputs with less funds." Magqashela added that in this regard, the ANC at Bhiisho is pleased to note that the SOPA will be held in the Legislative Chamber, which will lead to a saving on the following major cost drivers: -          Tent village -          Ablution facilities -          Mobile fridges -          Standby generator -          Screens "We are further satisfied that the number of guests will be reduced from 1200 to 650, and the proverbial three-course meal will be replaced by a finger lunch. This will lead to a further saving on the printing of invitation cards (which will be done in-house), and catering," he said. "The ANC Caucus applauds this decision, as it is a bold step in the right direction towards ensuring that our budget goes towards ensuring rigorous oversight. "The Eastern Cape’s Sixth Legislature seeks to ensure that the Eastern Cape Citizenry sees, hears, and feels its interventions in ensuring a better life for all. "We firmly hold that such interventions will invoke sharper focus on the Legislature’s Oversight and Public Participation initiatives in enacting an activist and people-centred Legislature." Magqashela said that the ANC at Bhisho is certain that this move will not lead to the greater provincial populace being denied an opportunity of experiencing the SOPA, as the address will be streamed live on various accessible media platforms. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 