 Port Elizabeth - Coega Development Corporation is waiting eagerly to win a prestigious award this year at the Future of HR awards. In just a week, the Future of HR Awards will be celebrating South African organisations that have demonstrated agility in the workplace and who are high-performance pioneers, highlighting their achievements for local and international business. This year, the awards ceremony would be held at the Sandton Convention Centre, north of Johannesburg, on the 13th of June 2019. For three consecutive years, the CDC has been nominated in the Employer of Choice: Public Sector category.  This year, Coega is up against some credible organisations as finalists, all running for such a prestigious award. The Employer of Choice: Public Sector award recognises the best public sector organisations for contributing to Human Resources Management through practices that directly impact business performance and innovation. It is no secret that an agile HR department is the key to any efficient public sector entity whose innovative values create a conducive environment and plays a major role in establishing standards of excellence in response to South Africans’ service delivery needs. “This year marks Coega’s 20th anniversary since its establishment in 1999; therefore the nomination as the Employer of Choice in Public Sector is a demonstration of our collective effort to excellence in everything we have been doing not only to advance the development of all our valuable employees but also to create value for all our stakeholders,” said CDC’s Head of Marketing, Brand and Communications, Dr. Ayanda Vilakazi. Coega’s nomination follows numerous prestigious awards already received by the organization. Amongst some of the recent awards from the industry peers and captains of industry, include (a) 2019 South Africa’s Investor of the Year; (b) 2018 Top Performing Public Service Organisation in South Africa; (c) 2019 Best Regional International Trade & Development Organisation in South Africa; (d) 2019 Public Sector Visionary Award; (e) 2018 Top Gender Empowered Public Service Organisation; and (f) 2018 Top Employer: Public Sector - Certified Excellence in Employer Conditions. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 