 Port Elizabeth - Three male suspects, aged between 25 and 38, are expected in court on Friday after they were arrested shortly after a business robbery where a vehicle was hijacked. "On Wednesday, at about 14:45, a shop in Endlovini Street, NU29, Motherwell was robbed at gunpoint by six armed suspects," said police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "During the robbery, airtime and cash money was stolen, as well as the vehicle, a white Nissan hardbody bakkie. "Two suspects drove off with the vehicle while the remaining four suspects fled on foot between the houses." He said that after about 30 minutes, the SAPS Flying Squad, assisted by SAPS K9 unit and Motherwell CPU, members managed to track down (via vehicle tracker) the vehicle to a house in Cintsa Street, NU5, Motherwell. "On police arrival, three males were noticed with the stolen bakkie," Capt Beetge said. "One of the suspects -  a 28-years-old, attempted to flee from the police while still having a firearm in his hands. "He was arrested a short distance away and the firearm confiscated." Capt Beetge said that the other two suspects, aged 25 and 38, were also arrested at the same time. "On further searching of the premises, another hijacked vehicle was found in the garage and confiscated. The white Ford Fiesta was hijacked on 15 June at 22:00 in Ngwenyana Street, NU6, Motherwell." He added that the unlicenced 9mm pistol (with its serial number removed) and 17 rounds of ammunition was sent for forensic and ballistic testing. Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, has applauded the arrests and recovery of the vehicles and firearm and added that "illegal firearms remain one of our main focus areas and we are urging our community to come forward with information that could assist police in getting these fire arms off our streets and get the criminals using them behind bars." The suspects face numerous charges ranging from armed robbery, hijacking and illegal possession of an unlicensed fire arm and ammunition and will be appearing before the Motherwell Magistrate's Court on Friday. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 