 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape has requested the Eastern Cape Department of Health give feedback, within 14 days, on its plans to remedy the slow response time and shortage of ambulances in Motherwell and other outlying areas of Nelson Mandela Bay. "In recent weeks patients from Motherwell have died because Emergency Medical Service (EMS) officials decided to relocate ambulances from the Motherwell Community Health Centre and base them at Dora Nginza Hospital," said Jane Cowley, DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Health. "Some clinics in Motherwell have waited an entire day for an ambulance to collect patients requiring hospitalisation." She was joined by Ngqura Constituency Leader, Yusuf Cassim MPL, local NMB councillors and community members in leading a picket at the Dora Nginza hospital on Tuesday.  "I also handed a memorandum to the department requesting more ambulances be allocated to the Motherwell Community Health Centre and for satellite ambulance services to be established across Nelson Mandela Bay. See memorandum attached here. "We will require feedback, within 14 days, as to what plans will be put in place to remedy the situation in Motherwell and across Nelson Mandela Bay," Cowley said. "I have also written to the new MEC of Health, Sindiswa Gomba, to establish why the reckless decision was taken to move all ambulances out of Motherwell. See letter attached here. "The international norm is one ambulance per 10 000 residents. The Eastern Cape would therefore need 650 functional ambulances. Currently the province has approximately 200 functional ambulances – less than a third of what we require to serve all communities." Cowley said that over the past 10 years in the DA-led Western Cape, 10 emergency centres have been upgraded or replaced, 11 new ambulance stations have been built and the rural patient pick-up service assists 150 000 rural patients per annum. "Ambulance response times are the best in the country." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 