 East London - Parliamentarians on Tuesday put President Cyril Ramaphosa’s first State of the Nation Address to the sixth democratic under the microscope as they debated its content at a sitting of the two Houses of Parliament. The nine-hour sitting for this crucial debate, which started from 10am to 1pm and resumed again from 14:00 to about 20:00, however turned out to be a drama filled event as opposition parties lashed at President Ramaphosa for weaving dreams rather than spelling out concrete plans. The SONA debate provides an opportunity for public representatives to explore and critique the commitments, including the priorities, which President Ramaphosa outlined in his recent SONA.     But the ANC brought in former Minister Yunus Carrim to defend Ramaphosa - and he did a job on the DA and the EFF:   On Wednesday, President Ramaphosa will reply to the debate at a joint sitting starting at 14:00. On Thursday, the National Assembly will hold its first ordinary plenary sitting since its establishment. “This sitting is scheduled to elect National Assembly House Chairpersons, to elect National Assembly members to the Pan-African Parliament, to designate members to serve in the Southern African Development Community Parliamentary Forum and on the Judicial Services Commission and the Magistrates Commission,” said Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo. Also scheduled for Thursday, is a meeting of the National Assembly Programme Committee, at 08:30, to further finalise dates for debating the Budget Votes of government departments and entities. “Budget Vote Debates have been provisionally scheduled to start on 9 July and will culminate in consideration of the Appropriation Bill. “The Appropriation Bill, provisionally scheduled for consideration at a plenary sitting of the National Assembly on 23 July, allocates funds to specific entities of the state – including Parliament and the Presidency,” said Mothapo. The National Council of Provinces is scheduled to hold its ordinary plenary sitting, the first since its establishment, on Wednesday at 12:00. The sitting will elect National Council of Provinces House Chairpersons. Committees of the National Council of Provinces are also scheduled to hold their first meetings on Wednesday to elect their committee chairpersons. – SAnews.gov.za Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 