 Alicedale - Alicedale police are hot on the heels of two suspects, who robbed and assaulted an elderly couple, aged between 75-81 years, in Alicedale at approximately 22h30 on Thursday. According to police information, it is alleged that the victims were asleep, with both doors of their house locked. "Two males with faces covered and hands in gloves gained access to their house armed with firearms and began assaulting the two victims, demanding money while hurling threats and insults at them," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "No shots were fired during this ordeal. The suspects ransacked the house and managed to open the safe where they took an undisclosed amount of money. Both suspects fled the scene are still at large." He said that the victims were both taken to Settlers hospital for trauma counselling and medical treatment for injuries. "Police detectives and other role-players were despatched at the scene to comb for clues that could lead to the arrest of the perpetrators," Capt Tonjeni said. "An appeal is hereby made to any member of the public who has any information that could lead to the arrest and prosecution of the suspects behind this attack to contact the Detective Investigation Officer, WO Quinton Arnolds at 042 2311 154 or 083 601 5680. "Anyone who has any information on crime are requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality." Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga condemned the attack and assault of the elderly and called on the police to investigate the attack and leave no stone unturned. “I would like to wish a speedy recovery to the couple, senior citizens and adults who should be enjoying their pension and fruits of their toil instead of being attacked and robbed of their hard earned money. My instruction to the detectives is clear, follow all the leads in your investigation and ensure that anyone behind this callous attack is arrested and have their day in a court of law,” she emphasized. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 