 East London - The Small Enterprise Development Agency (Seda), an agency of the Department of Small Business Development, has partnered with the SA Innovation Summit, to present Season 4 of the Pitch and Perfect Masterclasses and Competition. Ten regional workshops and competitions will be held in each province. A regional workshop will take place in East London, Eastern Cape on 30 July 2019. The top SMMEs will go on to participate in the national competition which will take place at the SA Innovation Summit from 11-13 September in Cape Town. Pitch and Perfect aims to facilitate improved access to finance for SMMEs and improved deal flow for investors. It provides SMMEs across the country, including those with support from Seda branches and Seda-supported business incubators with professional tools on how to present business cases effectively and efficiently, deliver persuasive pitches to potential funders, and improve access to market, technology and finance. It also enables business advisors, enterprise development practitioners, and incubators to assist and gain experience in pitching competitions in order to extend the reach to small business owners. “Every year Seda provides a platform for SMEs to learn how to pitch a business case, to test their pitching skills and to perfect the pitching skill. The main aim is to attract investment funding and access to new markets which will enable the business to grow and become sustainable. We thus encourage small business owners to take part in Seda’s annual pitch competitions and masterclasses for an opportunity to attract investments and new clients,” says Kgaladi Thema, Seda Specialist Innovation and Technology, Seda Pitch and Perfect Masterclass facilitator, and Seda Brand Ambassador. Chairperson of the SA Innovation Summit, Dr Audrey Verhaeghe, says: “The incubator network in South Africa is a great resource that brings the message of entrepreneurship to all South Africans. We hope that we can enrich this message and grow it from strength to strength. Owning our future economic strength starts right here.” SMMEs are invited to enter online at: innovationsummit.co.za/pitch-and-perfect. Alternatively, they can visit their nearest Seda branch or relevant incubator, register as a client and request assistance in the business case information for completing online entries, for regional Pitch & Perfect sessions. Branches, Incubators and Provincial Offices together with the Seda Technology Programme will then select the best ideas and businesses cases to pitch in the regional competitions to a panel of judges, including representatives from developmental funding institutions, commercial banks and venture capital. Entries close on 25 June 2019. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 