 Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape - Business meets leisure at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Port Elizabeth, where you can enjoy first class service the moment you walk through the door. From excellent rooms, tasteful dining and state-of-the-art facilities, your experience will be upscale all the way! As a business owner you want to make sure that your clients receive nothing, but the best, and when it comes to conferences and business meetings, you will find professional and personal service like no other with Radisson Meetings. When you work together with the staff at the Radisson Blu you can rest assured that your event will be in good hands. The Radisson Meetings concept has the three pillars of any successful event as their core; personal, professional and memorable.  The team at Radisson Meetings are as dedicated as you are when it comes to the success of your event, so you can be confident that you will have a memorable experience every time. They will provide you with everything you could possibly need for a successful event, from modern audio-visual technology and access to free high-speed unlimited Wi-Fi to stationary and power sockets for your laptops and phone chargers. By choosing the Radisson Blu for your meetings you can expect add-ons and personal touches that will help make your successful meeting all the more memorable for everyone. For the event, you are planning you will have your very own point of contact who will work with you as a team in order to coordinate and make sure that everything goes as planned. The Radisson Blu has a dedicated floor for business conferences and meetings that are equipped with more than eight meeting rooms and can accommodate a maximum of 200 people. The hotel has 173 guest rooms and suites, a Fitness Centre for hotel guests as well as an exclusive Amani Spa for a bespoke treatment after your event. All meeting rooms are naturally lit and come with customized menus, professional staff and complimentary Wi-Fi. A number of packages are available to choose from that suite your event and the needs of your clients. They have two specials for conferences in the winter season, you can choose from the Superior Winter Half Day or Full Day Conference packages. Each package includes tea, coffee, juice, soft drinks, snacks, note pads and pencils, data projector and more! In addition, Radisson Blu Hotel celebrate 10 years this year; their gift to you when you book an event for 100+ Guests, you’ll receive a free beverage to treat your guests. Note: offer is valid for bookings made from 10 June - 12 August 2019. Email their Meetings & Events Manager, Tania Piers-Prinsloo at Tania.Piers@radissonblu.com for more information or a quote. Visit their website atwww.radissonmeetings.com. 