 Port Elizabeth - Local hair enthusiasts Chanté Laiken Krisjans and Andile Sajini will represent the Eastern Cape at the Sofn’free Hair Xperts Masters Finals which takes place on Sunday at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The competition which started in 2015 is arguably Africa’s trendiest hairstyling contest, with hair enthusiasts from far and wide competing for the ultimate title and a handsome R250 000. The hair enthusiast’s duo, are young, skilled and creative and will compete individually for the final leg of the race. Chante’ and Andile are expected to design an avant-garde look plus a bridal hair style this weekend. In addition, finalists have to select their models, choose their outfits and ensure the entire look blows-away the judges expectations! More than this, finalists have an opportunity to showcase on a national platform their talent, gain exposure as well as learn more about the art of hairstyling. Chanté age 23, is a final year student at Images Hair Academy, has grown into herself creatively throughout the course of the competition. Despite not having a lengthy history of doing hairstyling, unlike other contestants, she’s making waves, no pun intended nevertheless. Andile age 28, rents a station at a local hair salon down town. Andile who has been doing hairdressing since 2013 is a testimony of a skill nurtured, and says wining this competition would be a “dream come true”. “Winning this competition is more than just gaining the money, it’s also about bringing hope to my community”, adds Chanté. It is her hope to encourage others to go after their dreams even without having the funds to pay for your studies. In the last decade the hair and beauty industry has exploded and is constantly reinventing itself, it’s no wonder the hair and beauty industry is one of the fastest growing industries world-wide. We are incredibly proud of our hair enthusiasts Chante and Andile, and confirms yet again, the magnanimous talent abounding within the Eastern Cape. Both contestants show tremendous courage and creativity and we wish them well and hope for all-round good hair days this weekend. Catch all the action live Sofn’free Hair Xperts social media channels. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 