 Butterworth - The situation at the Butterworth Hospital, where many sick and elderly patients wait for a full day, and in some cases even spending the night, for medical attention is testament to the fact that free health care in the Eastern Cape is a myth, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape says.  "I recently conducted an oversight inspection at the hospital and found that many of the patients spend the night in the Outpatients Department (OPD) are not waiting to be attended to at the Butterworth Hospital," said Jane Cowley, DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Health. "Instead, they are waiting to be transferred to provincial hospitals such as the Frere or Cecilia Makiwane Hospital in East London." She said that these patients have had to travel long distances from rural villages via taxis, which are unpredictable at best. "Very often they reach Butterworth Hospital after the patient transfer vehicle has already left for East London. They have paid upwards of R50 to reach town and simply cannot afford to travel back home and repeat the process the following day," Cowley added. "These patients then spend the night in a chair or even on the floor in the hospital, waiting for the next transfer vehicle.  "In most other cases, rural clinics have had to refer patients to the Butterworth Hospital because they do not have the required medication in stock. "This is not because they have failed to order the medications, but because they depend on the disastrous Mthatha Medicine Depot to supply the medication."  She said that this depot "is a disgrace, but no action is taken against the totally incompetent managers". "The fact that rural and urban clinics cannot access the medication they require from this facility in order to serve patients adequately, is an indictment on the depot and on the Eastern Cape Department of Health," Cowley described.  "Sick and the elderly patients are then forced to pay taxi fare to Butterworth Hospital, which is able to order medication directly from suppliers and does not have to deal with the Mthatha depot. "The round trip from nearby clinics such as Gwadana is in excess of R100. This flies in the face of so called free medical services and affects the indigent most severely. The understanding is that medication should follow the patient and not the other way around."  She said that she has written to the MEC for Health, Sindiswa Gomba, to request a full report on the status of the Mthatha Medical Depot. "I have also asked that the Department of Health consider launching a rural patient transfer system such as the one in the Western Cape, which successfully transfers 150 000 patients per annum," Cowley said. "The Democratic Alliance believes that if the Department of Health purports to offer free health care services, then this should include accessing medication at no cost to the patient." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 