 Port Elizabeth - The time has come to honour those businesses who thrive to build our economy despite rather difficult economic conditions. These businesses have all proven themselves in regards to giving back to the community by attracting investment, boosting exports and creating jobs. Oracle Media has been selected as one the top 50 businesses in Nelson Mandela Bay, as they have displayed all the good makings of what makes a 2019 SME stand out. Oracle Media first started back in 2011 when the owner of the company, Neil Barker discovered the growing power of social media, a vision that found gold in that we are living in a time where social media is booming. Oracle Media focuses on growing their clients business by making their brand come to life through the expert inputs of their staff. The company immerses themselves into their clients business and generates content ranging from digital designs, video and photography content as well as Social Media management. Oracle Media has made a business out of what everyone needs, which is simply more business, especially in these tough economic times where companies need an “out of the box” media company who will steer them into the right direction.  The company has two offices; one which is situated at 189 Cape Road, Mill Park, Port Elizabeth and the other in 66 Grayston Drive, Sandton. Oracle Media has over 40 staff members and their clientele are continually growing which is fantastic news for the growth of this company. To qualify for the award, companies are rated on some of the following criteria; Top New-Comers, Top investors and Top job creators. There are many companies within Nelson Mandela Bay who have really pushed forward to build up some fantastic SME’s so the competition was tough. The award ceremony was hosted on Friday 14 June and the award was handed over by Nelson Mandela Bays Mayor Mongameli Bobani. Oracle Media have stated that they are honoured to receive the award and that they could not have been where they are today without the support of their clients, along with their dedicated and passionate team. Earlier this year they also received the People’s Choice- Top Media Company in the Nelson Mandela Bay award – so it’s a very exciting time for this company. Looking into the future of Oracle Media, we can foresee rapid growth for the enterprise. The company’s core services which lie within the digital economy can only continue to grow as the world continues to grow its online presence. It could be said that good digital marketing can definitely rev up the economic cycle by creating more business for respective clients, leading to growth and job creation. This ultimately gives Oracle Media an everlasting social footprint in our community and will make them a sure contender for various other awards in the future. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 