 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, on Thursday welcomed the lengthy jail sentence handed down by the Port Elizabeth High Court to a Hankey man, Sebenzile Simane, for an attack on a farm in Hankey last year. The 32-year-old was convicted on 17 counts including rape, housebreaking, aggravated robbery, kidnapping, possession of a firearm and ammunition, attempted murder as well as forcing a minor to watch a sexual act. "Simane was sentenced to a total of 173 years and two life sentences in prison. All counts will run concurrent to the life sentence. The accused will effectively serve a life sentence in prison," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. It was the State's case that on 23 March 2018, the 44-year-old victim and her children were attacked in their house on a farm in Hankey by the gun-wielding Simane. "During the ordeal, the woman was shot and raped. Money was also withdrawn from an ATM." On Wednesday, 28 March 2018, the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit (Port Elizabeth), with the assistance of Palmietfontein detectives, arrested the 32-year-old accused at Kwa Guna administrative area in the Nketlana Location, a few kilometres from the Lesotho border. "Some of the property taken from the incident was also recovered," Col Naidu said. "The accused appeared in the Hankey Magistrate's Court on Tuesday, and remained in custody until the finalisation of the case." Lt Gen Ntshinga applauded the sterling work of the investigation team and prosecuting authority for ensuring a watertight case against Simane. "Dedication, commitment and thorough investigation contributed to making sure that this heartless criminal is remove from society for a very long time. This case must serve as a deterrent to perpetrators of such crimes as the SAPS regards the safety and security of the farming community as a priority," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 