 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is walking the talk when it comes to its commitment to keep the City clean: more than R40 million rand has been budgeted for the 2019/20 financial year to pay 43 co-operatives across the City as part of its Clean and Green Programme. Over a period of three years, more than R100 million is expected to be spent on the Programme. The services rendered by the co-operatives will also assist the Municipality in accessing some areas that are not easily accessible by waste collection vehicles. They will also assist the Municipality with community awareness programmes, in addition to focusing on cleaning up illegal dumping sites and general litter picking on roadside areas. Each co-operative is expected to employ between 10-15 people. Speaking at the launch of Programme, Nelson Mandela Bay's Executive Mayor, Cllr Mongameli Bobani, said he was very pleased that the majority of the co-operatives appointed were led by women. "This initiative is not only focusing on cleaning the City. We are also, for the first time, making a bold statement as this administration that previously disadvantaged people on the ground will benefit, with a particular focus on women. When we say we will redress and empower, we walk the talk! This is just the beginning: more projects of a similar nature that will improve service delivery and empower the people at the same time are in the pipeline," said Executive Mayor Bobani.  We continue to extend our commitment to impactful projects, we launched cooperatives to partner with @NMandelaBaymuni providing door-door collection to promote, raise awareness & involve the community to manage waste responsibly.We have heard your call for #WarOnWaste ?????????? pic.twitter.com/es2NAkHorz 60-year-old Liziwe Feleza from the Uthinga Ntaka Ndini Cooperative in Motherwell expressed her gratitude about the project. “I am so excited about this project. At my age, l was not sure that l will ever get a project from the Municipality. This is an opportunity to clean the City, our own City. We will not only do the cleaning, we will go as far as spreading awareness about the dangers of illegal dumping". Feleza lives with two of her children and five grandchildren. Before the appointment of her co-operative, she was unemployed. Mayoral Committee Member for Public Health, Yoliswa Pali, said as the political head of the Portfolio she would ensure strict political oversight over this Programme. "Myself working with the Public Health Standing Committee, we want to make sure than people do the work on the ground. There has to be visible change in our areas. Gone are the days when our people lived in filth that exposes their children to a health hazard," said Cllr Pali. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 