 Port Elizabeth - The SAPS in Bethelsdorp, Port Elizabeth, and the Community Policing Forum held an informative yet entertaining youth programme in observance of Youth Day on Wednesday. "Various schools from the area were invited and the event was well attended," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse van Rensburg. "Entertainment was provided by the youth themselves and it was clear that these young teenagers have unlimited potential and if guided in the right direction they can overcome their obstacles and make a success of their lives. "The youth also produced a drama highlighting bullying, drugs and gangsterism." She said that initiatives such as this are very encouraging to other children in the community and help turn youth away from choosing a path of crime. "During the interaction the guest speaker Mr Wesley Quantoi shared his life experience as a gangster and reminded the youth that they can rise up above their adversities and achieve anything if they steer their heart and mind in the right direction," Capt Janse van Rensburg. "Educating the youth is a joint responsibility and involves every sector of government and the communities." The Station Commander, Brig Zolani Xuwuka, encouraged the youth to get involved in their communities and resist the temptation of drugs. "I want to say to the youth of today that you should remember that without education, efforts in obtaining employment is going to be a very difficult one. When we look around us, we can see that our country or rather globally we are affected by economic pressures," he described. "We read every day that thousands of people are being retrenched and companies closing down. Therefore, I would like to appeal to our youth today, that together we should join hands and assist government in dealing with the scourge of crime and lawlessness. "The success of a crime free society depends on the cooperation between the youth and the community. I urge you to resist the temptation to use drugs and not to fall victims to criminal syndicates. Prove to the criminals and the lawless that they have no friends in our midst. This applies even more in our efforts to deal with the scourge of violence." Other speakers that formed part of this initiative was Social Development, SANCO, volunteers from the Victim support centre and they were speaking to the parents who also attended the event, the importance of looking out for one another is very important and that they need to remember that discipline starts at home and is not the responsibility of schools and the SAPS. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 