 Port Elizabeth - Finn Auto Repairs & Diagnostics, located in 30 1st Ave, Walmer, Port Elizabeth, have just celebrated ten years of being in business. From their humble beginnings of servicing cars they have expanded their service offering as each year has gone by. Owner of Finn Auto and chief technician, Jack Finn, says, “We are always increasing our range of equipment to ensure we can work on all vehicles, including the latest models. "We want to provide the best possible service as recommended by the manufacturers and to ensure that we remain fluent in car!” To be fluent in any language or technology means having a wide vocabulary. In the engineering and technology world that vocabulary gets bigger every day as more complex equipment is added to newer models of vehicles. Finn Auto thus has a continuous stream of investment in the latest equipment and tooling. No matter how sophisticated your vehicle, Finn Auto have the skills and know how to diagnose and correct your car. The dashboards of the latest luxury cars have more warning lights than a fighter plane from a few years back. Finn Auto use Diagnostic Scan Tools to check all the warning lights on all makes of cars. They also use an oscilloscope, exhaust gas analyser and a smoke leak detector to diagnose a vehicles engine performance.  Finn Auto have biggest range of Timing Tools in Port Elizabeth and their sister company does Performance and Economy Tuning, ECU Remapping, CAT, DPF and EGR removals. Other equipment includes an Injector Tester for petrol injectors as well as an On Car Injector Cleaning Machine for both petrol and diesel engines. They also have a full range of Flushing Machines - Automatic Transmission Flushing, Brake Fluid Flushing and Cooling System Flushing machines which remove all fluid and contamination from the system and replenish them with new fluids. A Walnut blaster is used to remove carbon build up inside intake manifolds and valves. Apart from the sophisticated range of equipment mentioned above for servicing all manner of vehicles, Finn Auto also pride themselves their range of equipment for offering other, much needed, services. These include Air Con machines to detect leaks and do repairs and re-gas air conditioners; a Wheel Balancing machine; on Car Brake Disc Skimming machines and a Windscreen Chip Repair machine. In effect, Finn Auto is a one stop car diagnostic, repair and maintenance workshop. For more information or to book your car for a service, call Finn Auto Repairs & Diagnostics on 041 581 1513 or visit them online at www.finnauto.co.za. Read more about Finn Auto Repairs here. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 