 Wedgewood Golf Club, Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape - Looking to enjoy a great game of golf in Port Elizabeth at an amazing price? Then look no further than the Wedgewood Golf Club & Country Estate. Here you will find beautiful tree-lined 18-holes and newly-incorporated lakes that offer a visual treat. The golfing community has recognised the Wedgewood Golf Course as one of the most stimulating and challenging golf courses in the Eastern Cape. The generous fairways and country ambience of the course allow for a wonderful game together with your friends, colleagues or on your own. From 18 June until 31 August, the Wedgewood Golf Club will have a number of Winter specials in place for avid golfers to enjoy. From Mondays to Fridays, both affiliated and non-affiliated visitors of the club only have to pay R600 per two ball which include the cart. Members of the club can pay R500 per two ball and the cart. Tuesdays and Thursdays are Student Days at the Wedgewood Golf Club, so students only have to pay R80 per person or R100 for a whole day of unlimited golfing fun. They also have a Sunday Special that kicks in after 12 pm. Non-affiliated visitors can pay R260, affiliated visitors pay R170, members of the club can pay R120 and homeowners can pay R100. Those who are Wedgewood package holders can play all 18 holes on a nine-hole credit. All Inclusive Members will get carts at a 50% discount.  Isuzu Motors has partnered up with the Wedgewood Golf & Country Estate to give avid golfers a chance to win more than R50 000 worth of prizes. Isuzu will be hosting a Monthly Mug competition that started in January this year and ends on the 7th of December 2019. The event is open to all players, who have an official handicap. To be eligible for the grand prize in December golfers need to have participated in at least six events. Visitors pay an entrance fee of R250, members of the Wedgewood Golf & Country Estate with rounds or packages pay R50 while members without pay R200. Read more here. The Isuzu Monthly Mug takes place on the second Saturday of every month, the next dates are: For more information on the Wedgewood Golf Club and what they have to offer, give them a call on 041 450 9595 or emailoperations@wedgewoodgolf.co.za. Visit their website atwww.wedgewoodvillage.co.za or Facebook page Wedgewood Golf Club. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 