 East London - Small business owners who are experiencing cash flow challenges should consider improving efficiencies in their payments collection and processing methods to free up working capital. Vaughan David, CEO of Business Savings and Cash Investments at FNB says that one of the most cost-effective ways of managing payments is through accepting or offering discounts for early invoice payments. This usually entails an agreement entered into between suppliers/vendors and businesses to benefit from discounts from the early settlement of invoices for goods or services rendered. Discounts can range from 10% upwards, for payments made within a stipulated number of days of receiving the invoice. “SMEs have an opportunity to leverage early invoice payment discounts both from a supplier/vendor and customer perspective. This would enable the business to receive invoice discounts while also accepting early invoice payments from its customers,” adds David. He unpacks some of the key benefits of making and accepting early invoice payments: Avoiding late payments– late payments can have severe consequences for a small business which is experiencing difficulties. Cash locked into invoices can impact the business’ ability to manage operations while processing new orders i.e. paying staff or paying for stock. “Early invoice payment discounts impact SMEs differently based on the type of business and nature of their operations. It is therefore essential to thoroughly assess your operations as well as cashflow requirements to determine a suitable strategy that will benefit your business in the long-term,” concludes David. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 