 Port Elizabeth - In order for sick leave to be granted on the back of a medical certificate, the medical certificate is to accord to Section 15(1) of the Ethical and Professional Rules of the Medical and Dental Professions Board of the Health Professions Council of South Africa. In this regard, for there to be a valid certificate it must contain the following: When it comes to medical certificates obtained at Clinics, there is a tendency of these certificates not being signed by a registered practitioner. However, it must be understood that all clinics as well as hospitals consist of a team of qualified medical practitioners or staff.  A person claiming to be ill and subsequently attending a Clinic or Hospital, has to be examined by such qualified practitioner and obtain an adequate medical certificate for employment purposes. Examinations that have been conducted by nurses or persons who are not qualified to perform examinations with the purpose of providing a diagnosis are not acceptable.  Therefore, a medical certificate is to be provided and clearly signed by a person who is certified and a qualified medical practitioner. A medical certificate that is provided by a person who does not fall under the category of qualified medical practitioners, although granted the authority to conduct such examinations, is deemed as not being a valid medical certificate thus being unacceptable. It is thus essential that an employee or patient that attends a clinic is to ensure that the medical certificate that he/she receives is valid and signed by a qualified medical practitioner and is not merely an attendance certificate.  Should it be the latter, it would not form part of sick leave and the employee could receive unpaid leave. The following are reasons that do not constitute valid reasons to invoke an employee’s entitlement to sick leave: Credit: Lungie Luvuno, Candidate Attorney within Goldberg & De Viliers Inc., Human Resources and Labour Law Department. For information please contact Tracey Mouton, Director, Goldberg & de Villiers Inc – traceym@goldlaw.co.za | (041) 501 9818. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 