 Port Elizabeth - Following amendments to Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) Codes of 2013, Coega Development Corporation (CDC) is well on its way to achieving BB-BEE Level 1 from the recently obtained Level 4 status; the organization achieved a score of 85.44 points with a BBBEE procurement recognition of 100%. “A Level 1 target is within our reach and we remain hopeful that it would be achieved,” said, Dr Ayanda Vilakazi, CDC’s Head of Marketing, Brand and Communications. Four amendments were gazetted on the 31st of May 2019, which are inclusive of: The CDC appointed a South African National Accreditation System (SANAS) accredited verification agency, BEE ONLINE (Pty) Ltd, to conduct its annual verification process in accordance with the Amended Codes of Good Practice. Against the congressional amendments, the CDC’s improvement from Level 7 to a Level 4 is due to increased points in the following areas: “The organisation has also maintained an equitable gender split of 50% female and male, respectively. However, in terms of the skill levels, the profile for gender equity across the CDC’s different occupational levels remains an area of focus,” remarked CDC’s Senior BBBEE Analyst, Ntombozuko Sijila. “The CDC’s intervention continues to drive employment equity improvements and gender representation at different levels of  the organisation, such as skills transfer initiatives, correct technical exposure, leadership development, coaching and professional registration programmes, to mention but a few.  These interventions are continuously being monitored for effectiveness and outcomes are measured annually,” said, Ntombozuko Sijila. Similarly, the CDC’s SMME (Small Medium & Micro-Enterprises) Unit Head, Unathi Maholwana applauded the improvements made by the organization in this area. “We endorse the procurement of goods and services from Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs), including black-owned and black women-owned enterprises who are also B-BBEE compliant,” she said. In 2017/18 financial year, the SMME Business Unit spearheaded the achievement of R707 million SMME procurement spend. “The organization will continue to promote economic empowerment and transformation by ensuring the participation of the disadvantaged communities and SMMEs through its BBBEE initiatives, such as the Skills Development as well as the Enterprise & Supplier Development Programmes,” concluded, Ntombozuko Sijila. Image: COEGA ACHIEVES A LEVEL 4 B-BBEE STATUS: (from left to right):CDC Project Co-coordinator, Nazlie Allie; SMME Intern, Sinazo Tumshe; Senior BBBEE Analyst, Ntombozuko Sijila; SMME Technical Manager, Thandile Makwabe; Unathi Maholwana, SMME Programme Manager & Ziyanda Kaleni, SMME Business  Development Manager Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 