 Port Elizabeth - Port Elizabeth police say they are curtailing the freedom of criminals in their policing precinct in addressing trio crimes as outlined by the National Trio Crime Action Plan. "In separate incidents on Wednesday, robbery suspects were arrested soon after committing their offences," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Two suspects were apprehended by SAPS Kabega Park members, who were in the vicinity when a shop was robbed by three men." According to police information, the complainant (aged 24) was behind the counter when three males entered. "One went to the fridge and took out a 2-litre cooldrink while the other went to the back of the shop. The third suspect pulled out a fire-arm and demanded the money," said Col Naidu. "Cigarettes, cash and toiletries were thrown into a bag. They ran out of the shop and got into a waiting gold Mazda 3 vehicle. In their haste to get away, one suspect was left behind and was arrested by police." She added that apolice car chase ensued as the suspects tried to getaway. However, police succeeded in stopping the vehicle. "Two males got out and ran away while the remaining one was arrested in the vehicle. The stolen goods and cash was found in the vehicle. Both suspects, aged 30 and 31, are detained on a charge of business robbery and are expected to appear in court soon." In another case, one suspect was arrested by SAPS Walmer Crime Prevention members after two suspects allegedly robbed a couple in their house in Mpukani Street in Walmer location on Tuesday night. "It is alleged that the 34-year-old complainant and his wife were inside their house when, at about 23:00, they heard a knock on the door. After the knock they heard the gate being broken," Col Naidu said. "The door was then kicked open and two suspects entered. They pointed the complainant with a firearm and demanded money. Cash, a TV, a laptop and two cell phones were taken. Suspects are known to the complainant." Mount Road Detective Trio Task Team members followed up on several leads as to the whereabouts of the suspects and, at about 13:00, on Wednesday, Walmer Crime Prevention members arrested a 25-year-old suspect at his work place in Burman Road in Deal Party. She said that a second arrest is imminent. Mount Road Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the arresting officers and commented that "trio crimes need to be seriously addressed as it has a negative impact on the quality of life of our citizens". Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 