 Sterkspruit - Two suspects are expected in court on Monday after they were busted by Sterkspruit police for allegedly stealing tombstones and violating graves. "A successfull multi-discipline operation was held with members of CI, K9, POPS, COCC and the Vispol and Detectives of Sterkspruit," described police spokesperson, Capt Ursula Roelofse. "The intelligence-driven operation was undertaken at Macacuma locality after a new trend of tombstone theft was identified and analysed in Sterkspruit and Palmietfontein area. "The team proceeded to the identified house and on further investigation arrested two suspects aged 47 and 31. The suspects are related to each other a - as an uncle and a nephew." She said that they are alleged to have engaged in the business of theft of tombstones and the violation of graves. "They were reconstructing and reselling the tombstones to unsuspecting buyers at low rates. "Parts of the used tombstone slabs were recovered by the SAPS at their homestead and confiscated," Capt Roelofse added. "A recent transaction was also confirmed with a new buyer, who had purchased two tombstones and had them installed at an old grave and a new grave to which the burial would take place over the weekend." She said that both the stones, with installation costs, were worth R8 000. Cash to the value of R7 600 was also recovered. "A cellphone of the main suspect was also confiscated for the download of conversations about sales of tombstones and pictures of tombstones installed, Capt Roelofse said. "The arrests made a breakthrough to many pending dockets of this nature. "The suspects will appear before court at Sterkspruit on Monday for possession of suspected stolen property. The total value of the recoveries was R 14 600." Deputy Cluster Commander, Col Mpho Rabela, commended the members by the manner in which they joint forces to reach this successfull break through. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 