 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, has called on the private sector and residents to open their hearts and donate clothing, food and other necessities to residents from Walmer Area Q following a devastating fire early Monday morning. Seventy residents, including numerous small children, watched in horror as their belongings razed to the ground in their twenty-three shacks. “During our site visit this morning it became clear that those affected only have the clothes on their backs and lost everything else. “I therefore would like to request businesses and private citizens to open their hearts and donate school clothes for the children, work clothes for the adults, food and other necessities to show that we are caring about the well-being of one another. “I am pleased that a delegation from different spheres of government and non-governmental organisations responded to reach out in support of fellow citizens in their hour of need. “Member of the Mayoral Committee for Safety and Security Litho Suka, Ward Councillor for ward 4 Ayanda Tyokwana, numerous municipal departments, Social Security Agency of South Africa (Sassa), Departments of Home Affairs and Social Development and non-governmental organisations stepped up to the plate to donate food, clothing and supplies. “Our Disaster Management Sub-directorate provided mattresses, blankets and food stuffs as part of our normal response. Waste management removed the rubble and cleared the sites in order for residents to start rebuilding again. However, our contribution is still not enough as the need is vast due to the large number of people affected,” Mayor Bobani said. Community Chest, Gift of the Givers and Ubutyebi Trust work closely with government in attempts to ease the plight. For more information, please contact George Geleba, Mayoral Spokesperson, at 076 545 7459. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 