 Port Elizabeth - Students receive first-hand experience of what it takes to be a future hotelier at Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth. An intake of 18 students and interns started their workplace experience at the iconic 18 story Hotel with the aim to gain insight into the hospitality industry in May. They were recruited from PE Mental Health, The Ray Mhlaba Skills Training Centre and NMU and placed in various departments within the Hotel for a period of six to twelve months. “The placement of the students into the six departments; Housekeeping, Kitchen, Food and Beverage, Human Resources, Front Office and Maintenance, was to provide each with sufficient experience according to their skills and education during their tenure with us. The gap of expertise when recruiting for positions for these departments often lack the service standards required for a Hotel”, says Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth’s Human Resources Manager, Rochelle Thomas. Thomas highlighted, that our partnership with the institutes contribute to the Skills Development objectives of our country while developing competent persons to become part of the main stream economy. The skills and knowledge gained by the interns/students uplifts the community financially, through employment nurturing future hoteliers. General Manager, Yashvir Jithoo, echos the importance of mentorship and development of the youth into service orientated employees for the enhancement of the Guest experience. “This is certainly one of our beliefs, that We grow talent and talent grows us; the talent within our business is looked after and turns full circle when interfaced with a positive Guest experience.” Project Director of The Ray Mhlaba Skills Training Centre, Caroline Ferreira, explains that the ongoing partnership with Radisson Blu Hotel has changed many lives, “this kind of intervention gives our students the necessary skills and knowledge required for the work place, builds their confidence and puts them in a bracket of well-rounded highly employable individuals for the hospitality industry”. The holistic approach of the Ray Mhlaba Skills Training Centre develops future leaders, empowering youth in our country with skills defines their identities, they take control of their own lives and contribute to the growth of our economy. Ferreira mentions that the student’s success is a commendation to the Centre’s impact, with many students returning regularly to inform of their success and to thank the Centre for believing in them when they had no belief in themselves. Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth recruited six students into the kitchen from the 2016/2017 program and a further two in 2018. The future is bright for the 2019 intake of students to continue to make strides in the hospitality industry. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 