 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, thanked the Top 50 Bay businesses, awarded at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Friday, for their resilience despite tough market conditions and for their commitment to invest in the prosperity of the metropolitan area. The Top 50 Business Awards are awarded to complying companies in terms of a set criteria, a determination that Mayor Bobani would like to see expanded on to allow for companies to be measured as Innovators, Social Entrepreneurs and Digital Transformation enterprises as well. “We see a future where many more businesses establish operations in our city without too much red tape and bureaucracy.  New businesses that will hopefully improve supply chain networks for the local business sector as well. “You will be glad to know that we are now establishing a One-Stop Shop for business in the Office of the Executive Mayor. This will enable greater efficiency for business when rezoning, building plan approvals, business licences and procurement of land amongst others are required. “We foresee better monitoring, evaluation and tracking of applications with this change. It will potentially entice more investments and discourage disinvestment. “We see a city where commercial competition leads to greater job creation, innovative start-ups, new product offerings and generally better services for the end-consumer, Nelson Mandela Bay residents. “We see a city where business works closely with local, province and national government to deal with social issues such as inequality, joblessness, crime and a lack of opportunities. “Tonight’s programme serves as encouragement for both other established and upcoming businesses to work harder to be included in this eloquent list,” Mayor Bobani said. Companies are adjudicated as Top Exporters, Top Investors, Top Newcomers, Long Standing Companies and Top Job Creators amongst others. “Executive Director of Economic Development, Tourism and Agriculture Anele Qaba, I am encouraged by the work from your Trade and Investment Sub-directorate with this programme. However, it seems that we miss categories for Innovation, Social Entrepreneurship and Digital Transformation. “I am strongly suggesting these areas as we are entrenched in a digital era known as the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which require different engagement with both business and residents. “Changes in market behaviour and new technologies force us to participate with the best interest and preferences of our target audiences at heart. “Social Entrepreneurship challenges business to make money and improve the plight of their fellow citizens at the same time. “We see a city where we innovate continuously and become a model coastal city by uplifting the poor and growing the middle class. This will change our fortunes as our municipality is currently overly depending on grant funding,” Mayor Bobani said. Some of the companies are Volkswagen South Africa, Isuzu Motors South Africa, Ford South Africa, Shatterprufe, Radisson Blu, Boardwalk Sun International, Makro, SA Canvas Port Elizabeth, Smartstone Port Elizabeth, Exclusive Hospitality Concepts, BLC Attorneys, RV Footwear and Fred Footwear. Other recipients are Oracle Media, TTQ Leisure Group, Mantis Collection, Sovereign Foods, BKB, Cape Produce Company, SRCC Holdings, Aspen Pharmacare, Coca-Cola Sabco, S4 Intregration, Hoola Creative Industries, Blacksheep Industries, Labournet, AIDC, FAW and Talhoda Fishing Enterprise among others. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 