 Humansdorp - Government’s efforts to combat crime under Operation Fiela have thus far yielded positive results in the Humansdorp Cluster. "An operation held in Storms River on Thursday - involving police, traffic officers, Eskom officials and Koukamma Fire fighters, led to the arrest of three men inside a house in possession of illicit drugs valued around R1 000," said police spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. "The operation also issued eleven traffic fines valued over R13 000." He added that the operation started around 10am and various businesses were visited to inspect compliance with municipal by-laws. "Two business people were warned for keeping fire extinguishers with expired dates. A businessman was fined R2 500 for contravening the Second-Hand Goods Act," Sgt Nkohli said. "Police in possession of a search warrant raided a house in Nompumelelo Village, Storms River, with three occupants, and seized seven bankies of dagga and seven bankies of crystal meth (tik) stashed inside the house. "The estimated street value of the drugs is R945." He said that the three men, aged between 20 and 34, were arrested and are due to appear in the Storms River Magistrate’s Court on charges of possession of dagga and crystal meth (tik) on Friday. "Two roadblocks were manned on the N2 stretch and the other two in small routes inside Storms River. Eleven motorists were fined in the routes for contravening various traffic offences and the value of the fines issued was R13 100," Sgt Nkohli said. "A 36 year-old man, who had been wanted for common assault (warrant of arrest) was also nabbed during the operation." Humansdorp SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, thanked all the officials and members deployed during the operation. “These operations are meant to prevent and combat crime throughout this cluster. We also urge residents to continue working with the police in fighting crime,” added Brig Lebok. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 