 East London - Recognising the sacrifices South Africa’s youth continue to make to improve their education, even as youth unemployment reaches 55.2%, the Shoprite Group says it is continuing to upskill thousands of people every year. As the largest private sector employer in South Africa, the Shoprite Group believes that developing people’s skills drives its own business and the economy, and its significant contribution to skills development and job creation has transformed the lives of many of its employees and job-seeking young people. Multiple training programmes offered by the Group are aimed at upskilling employees in order for them to succeed and enhance their careers, and for unemployed young people to gain skills to get jobs or start their own businesses. The Group offers retail training through Retail Varsity, its registered private further education and training college, to ensure that employed and unemployed learners receive industry-recognised qualifications. In 2018, Retail Varsity: Major training initiatives undertaken by the Group include: Retail Readiness, which is arguably the largest skills development programme ever undertaken by a South African retailer, where the Group has trained over 12 850 unemployed youth in the past three years to enter the retail sector or start their own business. On completion of the 8-week training programme, participants receive an NQF-level 3 qualification. Assistant Chef Training, launched in partnership with the International Hotel School, which is a four-month NQF 2 qualification training course which has been completed by almost 500 employees. The Group is upskilling more than 4 000 employees from its fresh food departments. Bakery Training, a six-week course including commercial baking techniques, has upskilled 40 staff members a year. Over 1 000 deaf learners have received NQF level 2 training in Wholesale and Retail Chain Store Operations since 2008. The Group guarantees employment for successful graduates. Trainee Accountant Programme, where 102 accounting graduates have successfully completed their accounting articles with the Group to date. In 1998, the Group became the first South African retailer to receive accreditation as a training office with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants. Image: Retail Readiness has seen some 12 000 youths upskilled since 2016. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 