 Port Elizabeth - A partnership between local security companies within the Port Elizabeth area and the SAPS paid off once again when two alleged robbers were arrested. According to police information, the suspects, aged 23 and 25, were arrested after the complainant activated the panic button to alert the security company of a robbery in progress. "It is alleged that on Monday, at approximately 13:20, a couple entered a business premises in Westbourne Road, Central, and enquired about airtime," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "Two more suspects entered and the complainant became suspicious of one of them as he appeared to be nervous. The panic button was activated. "One suspect pointed the complainant with a firearm and instructed him to lay down on the floor and they tied him up." She said that the other suspects started to take cell phones from the shelves and placed them in the bag. "While the suspects were busy the security company responded to the panic alarm and surprised the suspects. They managed to arrest two suspects from Motherwell while the other two suspects fled the scene." Capt Van Rensburg said that nothing was taken from the store and the bag containing cell phones was left behind. "A toy gun was also confiscated." She added that both suspects were detained on charges of business robbery and will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court during the week. Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the security company for their swift reaction and highlighted the importance of the installation of alarm systems by businesses. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 