 Port Elizabeth - Farmers' organisation, Agri Eastern Cape, on Thursday said that it is delighted that justice has triumphed in the High Court in Port Elizabeth where a man, Sebenzile Simane, was convicted and sentenced to a total of 173 years and two life sentences in prison for attacking a Hankey family on their farm. The charges against the 32-year-old, included two of rape, an attempted rape, four of attempted murder, and compelling a child to witness a sexual act. Simane, who used to work on the farm, had pleaded not guilty to firing several shots before gaining entry into the family’s farmhouse outside of Hankey in March 2018. He shot the woman as she apparently tried to protect her children and proceeded to rape her in view of her children. Simane allegedly tormenting the family for hours. He later tied them up then searched the house for valuables. Afterwards, he forced the woman to take him to a nearby ATM so he could withdraw cash from her account. That was when he was captured on ATM CCTV cameras. Police also later linked him to the crime scenes through forensic DNA analysis. His victim, who could not be identified by court order, said that Simane had claimed that her husband owed him money. He had apparently demanded to know where he was as he wanted to kill him first and then the rest of the family. "We are overjoyed about the effective life sentence handed down to the accused, Sebenzile Simane, following the vicious farm attack on a 44-year-old woman and her three young children on their farm in the Hankey district on 23 March 2018," said Alfonso van Niekerk, Chairman of the Committee for Rural Safety. "Our sincere sympathy goes out to the victim and her children, who are still struggling to come to terms with the trauma associated with this violent attack. "The increase in attacks is deeply concerning but every criminal who is arrested and sentenced is a massive victory in the fight to protect our farmers and their families." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 