 Port Elizabeth - If your company is in need of motivation, better communication skills, creativity etc, - here is some food for thought. Team-building activities done by professional trainees may just be your answer to a more successful business. When searching for a new and creative place to take your staff for team-building, try A Peace of Art in Walmer, Port Elizabeth. A Peace of Art is an arts and crafts venue and shop in Port Elizabeth. Since opening their doors in 2005, they are well known for their interesting and unique team-building sessions done by a professional lifestyle consultant helping people realising their potential and learn life skills that can be applied to art as well as everyday life. Not only is A Peace of Art well-stocked with various tools and items needed for all types of art, but they also offer creative and ‘thought-provoking’ team-building workshops, as well as regular workshops. At A Peace of Art, they are firm believers in therapy through art and creativity. Their various team-building and change-management courses are professionally presented to give you and your staff a well-rounded and enjoyable experience. Spend the day working together and utilising crafty and arty tools to create something wonderful and new that your staff will take pride in. Learn different forms of art; from mosaics, acrylic pouring, mixed media, chalk paint techniques, decoupage, repousse, polymer clay, pewter and so much more! Team-building activities are not the only workshops to experience at A Peace of Art, in fact, they host Creative Workshops on a regular basis for all ages! Follow their Facebook page to find out when their next workshop is to book your spot. In their creative workshops, you can make new friends and learn new and creative things to help realize your endless potential and learn new life skills from a trained lifestyle consultant that can be applied to your daily lives. To find out more about A Peace of Art and their team building activities, give them a call on 082 770 9994 or email info@apeaceofart.co.za. Visit their website at www.apeaceofart.co.za or follow them onInstagram. Find them at 85 Main Road, Walmer, Port Elizabeth. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 