 Paterson - Donovan Ferreira, 18 years old, and Elroy Kleinhans, 22 year old, were found guilty of housebreaking and theft and handed a 12-month prison sentence each in the Paterson Magistrates Court on Monday. "This followed after the they broke into the Paterson Post Office on last Friday night at about 22:00, and stole a money bag containing almost R100 000 cash money out of the safe," described police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "After the case was reported to Paterson police on Saturday morning, swift police follow up investigation led to the arrest of the two suspects later the same day at about 16:00." He said that all the money was recovered by Sunday morning and on Monday, they pleaded guilty before court and were sentenced. "From the investigation, it was established that Ferreira is the son of a post office employee, who was in possession of the keys to the post office," Capt Beetge said. "On Friday night, he and his friend stole the post office keys from his parents' room at 22h00 and then went to the post office to steal the money." Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, applauded the swift police work in the case by Paterson police as well as the Motherwell Cluster Serious Violent Crime Unit investigation team. However, he gave a stern warning to businesses to take better security measures. "We cannot believe that all the keys and alarm codes to a business premises keeping large sums of money are kept by only one person. Such a negligent situation is dangerous even to the life of that person due to possibilities of abductions and robberies," Major General Dawie said. "We urge our business fraternity to re evaluate their security systems and procedures, such as keys and key keepers, alarm codes and setting of alarms and related routines, to prevent incidents like this from repeating itself." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 