 Port Elizabeth - Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, expressed his gratitude towards a Port Elizabeth private security company and the alertness of a garage employee in speedily apprehending two robbery suspects. "They also recovered stolen property and confiscated a toy gun," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "It is alleged that on Sunday, at about 22:20, two suspects entered a garage in William Moffet Expressway and one asked the cashier for a plastic bag. "A firearm was produced and the cashier was ordered to empty the tills and put the money in the bag." Col Naidu said that the suspects then held up a customer, 18 years old, in the shop and took him to his Mercedes Benz and ordered him to drive off. "The teenager stalled the car in Circular Drive and the suspects ordered him out. When he got out, he ran away." She added that it is further alleged that while the robbery was in progress, an employee at the garage suspected that something was amiss and immediately pressed the panic alarm. "Within minutes, the security vehicle was on the scene and spotted the Mercedes Benz and succeeded in stopping the vehicle at the corners of Buffelsfontein and Victoria Drive," Col Naidu described. "Both suspects, aged 26 and 28 years, were arrested and the money and a toy gun was recovered. "The suspects were detained on charges of armed robbery (business), kidnapping and carjacking. They are expected to appear in court soon." Maj Gen Patekile commended the security company for their swift reaction and highlighted the importance of the installation of alarm systems by businesses. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 