 Uitenhage - In the spirit of Youth month, a new generation of entrepreneurs were groomed this week, through a holiday programme offered by Volkswagen Group South Africa (VWSA). In partnership with the organisation Young Entrepreneurs, VWSA's Community Trust hosted a four-day programme this week to cultivate a spirit of entrepreneurship in young children from the surrounding communities. A total of 52 children of VWSA employees between the ages of 9 and 13 years formed part of the holiday programme, held at the PeoplePavilion in Uitenhage. The budding entrepreneurs were taught about various aspects of starting a business, from designing logos to creating their own products from recycled materials. These products were displayed and sold at a Market Day on the final day of the programme. VWSA has partnered with Young Entrepreneurs since 2017 to host these entertaining and educational programmes for children at Uitenhage Primary School during the school year, bringing it to the PeoplePavilion in 2018 so the children of VWSA employees could also participate. Youth development remains a priority for the company, and this partnership is only one example of VWSA's efforts to uplift and empower the youth. Through the Community Trust, VWSA continues to support the loveLife Youth Centre in Kwanobuhle, which runs various programmes aimed at supporting and encouraging the youth, as well as teaching them life skills. The Community Trust has also set the goal of eradicating illiteracy in children under the age of 10 years, through its various literacy centres established at schools in Uitenhage. "At VWSA, we believe everyone should play a role in securing the future of our youth, and it is a responsibility we take seriously," said Thomas Schaefer, Volkswagen Group South Africa Chairman and Managing Director. "Our partnership with Young Entrepreneurs is an important one, as the children we are teaching today could become the employers of tomorrow. It is our goal to empower the youth through various initiatives and organisations, by preparing them for a bright future." Image: Volkswagen Group South Africa partnered with Young Entrepreneurs to teach the children of VWSA employees about entrepreneurship through their holiday programme. Here is Young Entrepreneurs facilitator Blanche Britz with Xylon Goliath (left) and Lihlumelo Tuis (right). Photo: Sandy Coffey Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 