 Addo - The South African Police Service in Addo, in co-operation with the detectives from the Uitenhage Operational Command Centre, have launched a search for four armed suspects, who allegedly robbed businesses in Addo, a few minutes apart. According to police information, the first incident occurred at about 18:10, on Wednesday night, when four suspects entered a supermarket in the Main Road of Addo. Police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart, said; "According to the 41-year-old complainant, he saw an armed suspect threatening his brother with a firearm. "Another armed suspect allegedly demanded cash and the keys of the safe." The suspects apparently then took all the cash from the cash register, cigarettes, cellphones and fled on foot from the scene. "No shots were fired, but during the robbery a shop assistant was stabbed and taken for medical care." Capt Swart said that another business robbery was reported at about 18:20, at Greenfield Valencia (Addo) where it is alleged that four armed suspects entered the shop, threatened the shop owner and assaulted the complainant and his brother. "The suspects then took an undisclosed amount of cash, cellphones and cigarettes and fled on foot from the scene," she added. "Police were summoned to both scenes and confiscated a pellet gun that was allegedly left behind by the suspects on the scene in Valencia. "No arrests were made as yet, but a task team was set up immediately to follow up on all leads."              She said that Uitenhage Cluster detectives are investigating cases of business robberies and they are following up on all possible leads.  "Anyone who might be able to assist with information about the robberies, may contact Detective Warrant Officer Wouter Verwey on 084 846 2273," Capt Swart said. "Anyone who has any information on crime are requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111.  Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 