 Port Alfred - Three suspects, two aged 33 and another aged 48, are due to appear in the Alexandria Magistrate’s Court this week following their arrest on Saturday evening. They face charges of robbery and attempted murder after opening fire on a police officer. "Members of Alexandria SAPS responded on foot to a report of a robbery in progress at a general store in Alexandria a few meters from the local police station," described police spokesperson, Captain Mali Govender. "It is alleged that unknown males held a client and the store owner at gunpoint and robbed them of a cell phone and an undisclosed amount of cash. "When members arrived at the scene, the suspects started firing shots in the direction of the members, who returned fire." She said that one of the members narrowly escaped being hit by a bullet, which hit his upper torso and ricocheted. "The suspects then got into white VW Polo and fled the scene whilst SAPS officers were in hot pursuit. The vehicle was eventually stopped and the driver and his passenger were arrested," Capt Govender said. "Members who were on foot managed to arrest a suspect who fled on foot. Cash and items taken from the store were seized from the suspects." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lt General Liziwe Ntshinga, said that “The safety of our police officers is of paramount importance. On a daily basis our members are reminded on the importance of their safety as they constantly encounter hostile forces that threaten their safety. "Late Saturday evening one of our members who took the necessary safety precautions was spared as he was shot at in his upper body. The bullet that was aimed at him penetrated his jacket and hit onto his bullet resistant vest. An attack or killing of a police official undermines the authority of the State and will in no way be tolerated." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 