 Bhisho - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Tuesday sent condolences to the Watson family following the death of controversial Bosasa (now African Global Operations) CEO, Gavin Watson, on Monday morning. The accident happened close to OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg at around 5am on Monday, when he appraently lost control of his Bosasa-registered Toyota Corolla and collided with a concrete pillar. Watson made headlines when he was implicated by former Bosasa COO, Angelo Agrizzi, for bribing government officials – including some Ministers, with money and other lavish gifts in exchange for favours. It was alleged that embattled Watson had used his struggle credentials to secure lucrative government tenders after the fall of apartheid. Agrizzi was testifying at the Zondo Commission into State Capture. Bosasa also allegedly donated millions to the African National Congress (ANC). "On behalf of the people of the Eastern Cape and the provincial government, I would like to send my heartfelt condolences to the Watson family as they mourn the loss of Gavin Watson," said Mabuyane. "I wish the family strength during this difficult time of dealing with a difficult tragedy of losing a family member. "Gavin Watson, together with some members of his family, played an important role in fighting oppression and apartheid in our country, contributing into the liberation of our country. "It is important to appreciate Gavin Watson’s contribution in the liberation of our country." Meanwhile, amid swelling speculation around Watson's death - he had also been due to testify at an inquiry into his tax affairs on Tuesday at an inquiry led by advocate Piet Marais SC as part of an investigation by the South African Revenue Services (SARS) into his tax compliance, his family has since reportedly sought an independent inquiry into his death. Image: SANews.gov Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 