 Port Elizabeth - Stainless Design, located in Struandale, Port Elizabeth, has started franchising its stainless steel balustrades business model. The company is considered a market leader in quality, design, installation and finishing of stainless steel balustrades and saw franchising as an opportunity to expand their business not just countrywide, but internationally too. Stainless Design is a division of Stainless Accessories, an ISO TS16949-accredited manufacturer of stainless steel exhaust components for various original equipment manufacturers (OEMS). The company has been producing world class stainless steel products since 1998. Stainless Design have been working with small to medium sized contractors all around the South Africa for a number of years. The relationships have been informal and so growth has been steady but relatively slow. Franchising gives Stainless Design an opportunity to accelerate this growth through a more formal relationship where both parties can invest more time and effort in building the Stainless Design brand. Thanks to the years of development, ingenuity, experimentation and hard work, Stainless Design have developed and patented a self-locking balustrade system. The system is very easy to install and requires no welding, cutting or drilling of the steel on site. The contractor takes the necessary measurements, uploads the information onto the Stainless Design App and the balustrades are made to order at Stainless Design’s factory in Port Elizabeth before being shipped to the contractor. The contractor can install the balustrades at a highly profitable rate per meter quickly and efficiently with little to no mess at the work site. The success rate of franchises is about 90% compared to a much lower rate of success (40 to 45%) for a typical independent small business. This is appealing to both the franchisor and the franchisee. Any existing business that is in the instillation or construction industry are ideally suited to this franchise. Private building contractors, flooring specialists, plumbers and electricians, roofing and ceiling specialists, painting and decorating contractors, blind manufacturers and installers – in fact anybody who has practical experience with building or subcontracting for home owners or corporations has the potential to be a successful franchisee. To find out more about a Stainless Design franchise oppertunity call +27 80 11 11 012or emailingquotes@stainlessdesign.co.za. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  