 Port Elizabeth - Global businessman confirms the business of transforming lives Business Network International’s (BNI) National Director, Mike Levin, visited Port Elizabeth on Saturday to inspire local business people. Having brought BNI to South Africa 21 years ago and growing it to more than 2 700 members in 14 different regions countrywide, he introduced Global Master Trainer, Murali Srinivasan, to 50 business people at Running Waters. “We are in the business of transforming lives, helping other people to grow. BNI’s principles are simple, but not easy. It is about making more money – impacting more lives. Keeping it simple. However, it means getting out of your comfort zone,” said Srinivasan, who is based in India and visited four different countries in five weeks before arriving in Port Elizabeth. He challenged the audience to set high financial targets, build support teams to delegate to, establish processes, measure progress and create an organisational culture of ownership that reflect one’s values. He emphasised the importance of applying these principles consistently. “The road to success is always under construction,” Srinivasan said. He regards it as important to focus on the following five points to ensure sound business growth: “BNI’s underlying philosophy is ‘givers gain.’ We demonstrate that by giving business to others, you will get business in return. "We help members to increase their business through a structured, positive, supportive and professional referral method that enables them to develop meaningful and long-term relationships with quality business professionals,” said Warren Tagg, Vice-President of the BNI Trade Winds chapter in Port Elizabeth. Image: BNI members celebrating business growth are from the left, back Warren Tagg, Lecia Amaral, Anchen Jacobs, Murali Srinivasan, Butch Coetzee and Charné Stoter. In front are Melonie Gobel and Riaan Hanekom. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  