 Port Elizabeth - The best in the business will soon be acknowledged by Exporters Eastern Cape at the organisation’s prestigious Exporter of the Year Awards 2019. The gala event, which will take place on Friday, August 16 at The Sun Boardwalk Convention Centre, promises to be a celebration of the region’s annual export successes. The sought-after Exporter of the Year Awards – now in its 24th year – recognises and honours the achievements of Eastern Cape exporters and service providers to the province’s export industry. Transnet National Ports Authority’s (TNPA) General Manager: Corporate Affairs & External Relations, Moshe Motlohi, said the parastatal was proud to support the Exporter of the Year Awards 2019. TNPA is the Platinum Sponsor again for this year’s gala event. “A vibrant export industry plays a critical role in generating sustained economic growth, helping us to meet our developmental mandate as Transnet - including a better life for all South Africans. "We want our ports to not only serve as multi-cargo trade gateways, but also to foster the growth of the Eastern Cape’s participation in the global export economy through increased import and export activity in the province,” said Motlohi. Other sponsors for the event include Absa (Gold), Volkswagen Group South Africa (Gold), Magnetic Storm (Gold), Oracle Media (Gold), SJM Flex SA (Silver), Industrial Development Corporation (Silver) and Sasfin Commercial Solutions - Global Trade (Bronze). Winners will be announced in the following categories: Judging criteria includes qualitative and quantitative data, which are thoroughly assessed by an independent panel of judges. This year’s judges include Quintin Levey (Exporters EC), Jane Stevenson (Exporters EC), Sujit Bhagattjee (TNPA), Kingsley Dell-Robertson (IDC), Justin Ries (FNB), Prince Matonsi (NMBBC), Dr Randall Jonas (Nelson Mandela University Business School) and Hoosain Mahomed (AIDC). Last year’s Overall Exporter of the Year Winner was S4 Integration and according to S4’s Marketing Manager, Gideon Smith, it was an incredible experience to be acknowledged for the home-grown Port Elizabeth company’s hard work. “Winning was quite unexpected and a privilege to receive such a prestigious award. For S4 it meant that we were on the right track, and that industry had taken note of our contribution towards the Eastern Cape exporting market. "Through the win, new opportunities have arisen for our company and we have seen growth in our software and industrial automation divisions,” said Smith. S4 also reaped up two additional awards at the 2018 Awards for the Best Exporter: Small business, as well as a Merit Award for the IDC Job Creation Award. “Winning adds to your company’s credentials and solidifies your achievements. We received publicity and brand awareness which created opportunities to receive a number of other awards and strengthened our partnerships with international partners and built confidence in S4 with our local customer base,” said Smith. For more information contact Exporters Eastern Cape Branch Coordinator, Suzanne Vermeulen at info@exportersec.co.za. Image: The Overall Exporter of the Year for 2018 was S4 Integration. Pictured during the gala event last year were (from second left) Ettienne Gerwel (S4 Integration) receiving the award from Transnet’s General Manager: Corporate Affairs and External Relations, Moshe Motlohi (far left), Jane Stevenson, Vice-Chair: Exporters Eastern Cape and Quintin Levey, Chairperson: Exporters Eastern Cape. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 