 Port Elizabeth - Thorough investigation and close collaboration between investigators and the prosecuting authority has ensured that a gang affiliate will remain behind bars for many years. "On 7 May 2016 at 22:10, two males entered a house in Deverill Street in Helenvale and started shooting at the two victims inside the house," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Charlton Mathews (29) sustained multiple gunshot wounds and died on the scene while the other victim (28) was shot in his back. "The suspects then ran away." She said that the accused Jermaine Ruiters was identified as one of the shooters and had evaded police. "On 20 May 2016, police received information about a shooting in Calvin Street in Helenvale. It was alleged that a male was shot and taken to hospital," Col Naidu added. "The investigating officer proceeded to hospital and found the accused, Jermaine Ruiters (18 at the time) with two gunshot wounds. "He was arrested and charged for Mathews’s murder and attempted murder." She said that Ruiters was also charged for attempted murder which took place on 17 May 2016 in Pienaar Street in Helenvale. "At 15:00 on the said date, Ruiters and another male was at the corners of Ambraal and Pienaar Streets when they starting shooting at the victim (in his twenties) and his two friends. No one was injured during the shooting." Ruiters remained in custody until the finalisation of the case. On Monday, he was found guilty and sentenced in the Port Elizabeth Regional court on the following cases: On the case of attempted murder in Pienaar Street, he was sentenced as follows: "Ruiters will effectively serve 24 years in prison as the rest of the other sentences will run concurrently with the murder sentence." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, has welcomed the sentencing and commended the investigating team including the prosecuting authority . "The thorough investigation of the case in collaboration with the prosecuting authority as well as evidence of witnesses not only help in the eradication of crime and criminality but also enables the SAPS to provide a safe and secure environment for the communities they serve," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. "The core business of the SAPS is to fight crime and bring criminals to justice and sentences such as this re-assures the community of our commitment to our call of duty." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 