 Port Elizabeth - THE biggest employer in the province received top accolades at the 2019 Exporters Eastern Cape Exporter of the Year Awards. During the gala event, hosted at The Sun Boardwalk Convention Centre, on Friday night, Volkswagen Group South Africa (VWSA) was announced as the Overall Winner of the 24th annual Exporter of the Year Awards. This year’s win is a hat-trick for VWSA, who also received the prestigious title of Overall Winner of the Exporter of the Year Awards in 2011 and 2017 respectively. Exporters Eastern Cape Chairman Quintin Levey said in the judges’ opinion, VWSA achieved the most success in the period under review. “VWSA is the largest employer in the Eastern Cape with over 4000 employees, contributing R2.6-billion in salaries, wages and benefits to the Metro and they indirectly support over 50 000 people in South Africa through their vast supplier network,” said Levey. As a major exporter at the Port Elizabeth harbour, VWSA this year exported over 75 000 cars (valued at about R15,6-billion) to countries such a Britain, Ireland, Australia and Japan, increasing the company’s exports by 37%. The company also exported over 65 000 engines to India and Malaysia. Other awards VWSA received last night included a third merit award for the SJM Flex Environmental Award, a third merit award for the IDC Job Creation Award and the Uitenhage automotive company was also announced the winner in the category Best Exporter: OEM. VWSA Chairman and Managing Director Thomas Schaefer said he was proud and humbled to receive the awards, especially the accolade of the Overall Winner of Exporter of the Year 2019. “Exporting is an important part of our business as the majority of our vehicle and component production is exported to international markets. Over the years our export volumes have increased, which has been good for the sustainability of our business, as well as our suppliers,” said Schaefer. VWSA has been exporting since 1992 and manufactures and assembles vehicles as well as automotive components for the local markets and over 25 countries. Since 2003 the company had invested over R14-billion in the modernisation and upgrade of its manufacturing facility.  Other merit and category winners announced during last night’s awards evening included: SJM Flex Environmental Practice Award SJM Flex Environmental Award IDC Job Creation Award Best provider of services to exporters Best exporter: Small business Best exporter: Medium enterprise Best exporter: Corporate Best exporter: OEM Exporters Eastern Cape Chairman Quintin Levey said that all the winners and merit award winners richly deserved their awards and congratulated all the participants for their outstanding achievements over the past year. Levey also thanked all the sponsors of the 2019 Exporter of the Year Awards including Transnet National Ports Authority (Platinum), Absa (Gold), Volkswagen Group South Africa (Gold), Magnetic Storm (Gold), Oracle Media (Gold), SJM Flex SA (Silver), Industrial Development Corporation (Silver) and Sasfin Commercial Solutions - Global Trade (Bronze), Kingfisher FM (Media), The Herald (Media) and RNews (Media). The popular awards banquet was attended by more than 450 guests, who were entertained by Centrestage’s All-Star Band. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 