 East London - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape has called on Eastern Cape MEC for Health, Sindiswa Gomba, to provide a plan for the improvement of East London clinics following oversight inspections at Gompo A- and Gompo C-clinics in Duncan Village and Aspiranza-clinic in Buffalo Flats, East London. "During these oversight inspections residents complained that the clinics are understaffed, have a general lack of space and cannot provide the basic services they are entitled to," said DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "Residents arrive in the early morning hours and have to wait until late afternoon to be assisted. In certain cases people are turned away without getting any assistance at all." Bhanga said that the DA believes that people cannot be free without a respectable standard of living, which requires access to education, healthcare and quality basic services.  "The first step to fixing our poor public health system is to address challenges in our primary healthcare," he described. "As spelt out in the DA’s Sizani Universal Healthcare (SUH) Plan, this involves making sure that our clinics are well capacitated to offer quality care to every South African, irrespective of whether or not they are covered by the public or private health systems. "If we strengthen our primary health care system, we relieve pressure on institutions like hospitals and strengthen the whole system. "I will be submitting questions to the MEC for Health, Sindiswa Gomba, in which I will request to be furnished with a plan on how the infrastructure and staffing issues at these clinics will be addressed." Bhanga said that DA Shadow Minister of Health, Siviwe Gwarube, will also take this matter up with the Minister for Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 