 Port Elizabeth - Looking for ideas on the petrol price for September 2019? The latest petrol price prediction for September 2019 shows motorists are in for another petrol and diesel price increase. This is after petrol prices increased in August. Petrol prices in South Africa have increased for six out of eight months in 20119. "Sudden Rand weakness after a lengthy period of stability has put pressure on the fuel price and left South African fuel users at the mercy of international oil markets," said the Automotive Association of South Africa (AA). "This is according to the unaudited mid-month fuel price data released by the Central Energy Fund." The AA said that based on the current data, petrol is showing an increase of up to ten cents a litre, illuminating paraffin 12 cents, and diesel as much as 16 cents. "International oil prices have dropped markedly since the beginning of the month, with crude oil having consistently traded below 60 US dollars per barrel," the AA added. "In recent days though, there have been signs of an uptick, which could see fuel prices come under renewed pressure. "However, the Rand plummeted over the same period after trading within a consistently narrow band since June. This has turned a likely fuel price reduction into an across-the-board increase. "We are concerned that there may be worse to come." The Association said that the South African economy is in a parlous state, with ongoing policy uncertainty and a growing debt burden. "The country is ill-placed to weather its domestic challenges, let alone developments on the international front, and this leaves fuel users increasingly exposed to movements in the Rand." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 