 Port Elizabeth - The continuous recovery and seizure of firearms by the Anti-Gang Unit in Port Elizabeth has been lauded by the SAPS in the Eastern Cape. "In the last 24 hours, four firearms were seized and suspects arrested in separate clampdowns," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Since the 1 August 2019 until Thursday, criminals were deprived of 63 firearms." She said that on Wednesday, at about 11:45, members responded to a shooting in New Brighton. "The suspects had already left but after patrolling the area for a while, two suspicious males were seen nearby. When they noticed the police, they started running," described Col Naidu. "One suspect was seen throwing a plastic bag into a yard. The bag contained 17 rounds of ammunition. "He was arrested and after questioning him, he took the members to his house and handed over a 9mm pistol with an additional 15 rounds of ammunition." The 45-year-old suspect was arrested and detained on a charge of prohibited possession of a firearm and illegal possession of ammunition. "The serial number was filed off." In another incident, a 9mm pistol was recovered from the roof of a house in Ext 32 in Bethelsdorp. "It is alleged that members were assisting SAPS Bethesldorp members when they chased after a male. The suspect managed to evade an arrest," Col Naidu said. "The firearm was reported stolen in Kamesh in November 2018." She said that on Wednesday again, at about 23:00, the AGU members quickly responded to a report of shooting in Canada Street in Timothy Valley in Bethelsdorp. "They noticed a male running to the back of a house. A foot chase ensued and the suspect was seen hiding something next to a shack between rubble," Col Naidu said. "The suspect (30) was apprehended and two shotguns were discovered. "The shotguns were stolen in Jeffreys Bay in August 2018." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, has commended the Anti-Gang Unit members for the sterling recoveries. "The multi-disciplinary team work between the station, specialised and AGU members is yielding positive results. The confiscation of 63 firearms in less than a month is proof that our members are patriotic to the communities they serve," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. "We will not share our space with criminals and we will continue to ensure that criminals are made helpless and removed from the community." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 