 Port Elizabeth -Democratic Alliance (DA) leader in the Eastern Cape, Nqaba Bhanga, on Wednesday revealed that he had survived an attempt on his life ahead of a bid to oust current Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani. Bhanga made the revelations at a media conference held in Port Elizabeth. He was joined by DA NMB Cllrs Athol Trollip and Rano Kayser. "Criminal elements within the government of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality have shown their desperation to loot this City after I survived a failed attempt on my life," he described. "The attempt occurred on Tuesday night, 20 August 2019, after a meeting between the DA and other political parties in Summerstrand. "At the meeting all stakeholders involved came to an agreement that we can no longer allow the Executive Mayor of NMB, Cllr Mongameli Bobani, to drag the City down into corruption and a state of perpetual fear and other forms of intimidation." Bhanga said that the stakeholders have submitted a motion of no confidence in Mayor Bobani and followed all protocols through the Speaker’s office to have this debated at a special emergency council meeting on Friday. "The Speaker has on Wednesday turned down this request, but all parties concerned with the future of Nelson Mandela Bay and its people, will not let this decision stand. "We had a very successful meeting on Tuesday night with other parties involved with removing Mayor Bobani," he said. "After the meeting, I caucused with Cllr Rano Kayser, who had joined me during the meeting, and we then gave telephonic feedback to NMB Caucus Leader, Cllr Athol Trollip. "Afterwards, between 22:00 and 22:30, I was on my way to Gomery Avenue and noticed a car behind me. This car followed me everywhere and accelerated every time I tried to get away. "Another car then joined the chase and even followed me across a red traffic light near the old Telkom Park Stadium. I drove towards the Humewood Police Station, but took the wrong street and eventually ran to the Paxton Hotel from where the police was called."  Bhanga said that a case of attempted hijacking was opened, "but this will be added to as more information comes to the fore". "I am requesting anyone who observed this car chase, to go to the police station and report what they saw. "I believe these people were hired from outside PE, because they chased me for more than 7 km in a secure area such a Summerstrand," he described. "This attempt is a direct outcome of our meeting about the removal of Mayor Bobani, but I will not hide, I will fight. We will pursue the removal of the Mayor, because when nobody stands up and fights, when there is terror, anarchy and killings, this criminality will become the status quo. "Our City must be safe once again, because since Mayor Bobani took over there has been no peace, stability and service delivery. "For this goal we are willing to lay down our lives." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 