 Mthatha - The Eastern Cape SAPS Commercial Crimes unit arrested a suspect, Wisani Gybon Mogale, who is alleged to have defrauded three business people so far, extorting money under false pretence. According to police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni, Mogale faces charges of fraud and impersonating the Elundini Local Municipality Municipal Manager. "The 35-year-old male suspect briefly appeared at Seshego Magistrate's Court and the case was transferred to Maclear Magistrate's Court on Wednesday as one of the amounts was deposited in this court’s jurisdiction," he described. "The arrest follows after the incidents that happened in May and June 2019 at Elundini Local Municipality in Maclear, after construction tenders for paving were advertised by this local municipality. "The bids were also uploaded and advertised on the municipal website in order to be accessible to the general public." Apparently after the closing date of the tender, the municipal manager received a call from one of the bidders alleging that there is a gentleman, who is impersonating him asking for money in order issue a letter of appointment. "Fortunately, the bidder refused to pay the money after he was not convinced that the person he was talking to was an Elundini municipal manager," Capt Tonjeni. "Other two bidders were also conned by the same man under false pretence and they ended up paying R150 000 and R80 000 respectively. The total amount defrauded stood at R230 000." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga instructed Provincial Commercial Crimes Unit to investigate the complaint and a case of impersonating and fraud was opened. "Through thorough forensic investigation the suspect was linked to the crime and traced to be operating from his house in Seshego, Limpopo where police arrested him on 21 August 2019." The man would also appear before the Mthatha Magistrate's Court on Thursday. “Corruption and fraud within our local Municipalities do not only rob state coffers of financial resources but also deprive the general public services as money planned for service delivery is misdirected and stolen. Our Commercial Crime Unit must be commended for the good work thus far," said Lt Gen Ntshinga. "We are looking forward to a successful prosecution and conviction, working hand in hand with the National Prosecution Authority and the courts." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 