 Port Elizabeth - The August 2019 petrol and diesel price picture is showing a mixed bag for South African motorists according to the latest fuel price prediction by the Automobile Association of South Africa. "Fuel prices for August 2019 are set for changes with petrol up and diesel down," the AA said. "This is according to the unaudited month-end fuel price data released by the Central Energy Fund." It added that international oil prices have steadily trended upwards since the start of June, although there has been a slight pullback since a peak on July 11. "Since then, diesel prices have edged higher while petrol remained flat, although the currency remains volatile going forward, particularly in light of recent ratings agency announcements and other factors." According to the AA, the latest figures show petrol will increase by around 12 cents a litre, and diesel will be down by approximately 16 cents. Illuminating paraffin is also down, by eight cents a litre. "Oil volatility is likely to continue, but that many competing factors are in play, such as US inventory levels, political instability in the Middle East, a possible medium-term demand plateau, and ongoing OPEC output restrictions," the AA said. "Medium-term oil price forecasts remain subject to considerable uncertainty, as does the Rand against the Greenback. "The average Rand/dollar exchange rate crossed R14.20 last week despite spending much of July stronger against the US currency. This volatility can come into play before Wednesday’s adjustment and may even have a bearing on the September outlook. "South African fuel users have to remain vulnerable to the country's difficult economic position and the vagaries of the international oil price. Anything which shocks oil higher or the Rand weaker has the potential to cause sharp fuel price increases." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 