 KwaNobuhle - The South African Police Service in Kwanobuhle, Uitenhage, are investigating a case of murder and three counts of attempted murder, after a 27-year-old man was fatally wounded and three others sustained gunshot wounds over the weekend. "Police were summoned to the scene in Qhoqho Street, Kwanobuhle, at about 01:55 on Sunday morning," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "On arrival, police found the body of a 27-year-old male, who had multiple gunshot wounds in the upper body. "Three other males (ages not confirmed) were taken to a hospital nearby and they were treated for various gunshot wounds. (They were shot in the legs and arms)."            Capt Swart said that it is alleged that the patrons were inside a tavern when an unknown man entered and fired several shots at the group. "The suspect fled the scene and community members alerted the ambulance services and the SAPS. The 27-year-old man was declared dead on the scene," she described. "The motive for the murder and attempted murders are not known at this stage and the case is being investigated." Acting Uitenhage Cluster Commander, Brig Ronald Koll, has condemned the shooting incident and has instructed that the perpetrator/s must be arrested. "Anyone who might be able to assist with any information about the shooting incident, may contact Detective Warrant Officer Deon Arnolds on 082 319 9223, 10111 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111," Capt Swart said. "Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 