 St Francis Bay - Eastern Cape Premier, Lubabalo Mabuyane, on Friday shared a message of support following another massive fire that gutted homes in the St Francis Bay area of the Kouga Local Municipality on Thursday. The fire which has since been extinguished claimed 11 St Francis Bay homes. "My heart goes to the home and property owners of St Francis Bay whose properties were guttered by fire this week," said Mabuyane. "While investigations about the cause of the fire are still conducted, we must appreciate the role of the first responders, the fire fighters from the municipalities and the role played by locals that stopped the fire from spreading to other properties in the area."  #SouthAfrica Eight Homes in St Francis Bay on fire. Firefighters deploying pic.twitter.com/zDfX3TuMpr Mabuyane added that this is not the first incident in this community and this calls for an urgent solution to prevent this from occurring again. "Whatever the cause of the fire is, we must collectively find ways to stop this to protect properties from being destroyed by fire," he described. "The provincial government will wait for the investigation report about what caused the fire so that we can use that information to put together concrete plans to prevent these fires from burning properties in St Francis again. "We wish the property owners and their families strength as they deal with the loss of property, trying to recover their damaged properties."  Fires raging in St.Francis Bay again. It’s like a war zone here. Very sad times.. again. #SouthAfricaLive #stfrancisbay #fires #suspicious #tragic pic.twitter.com/kkK7rdpEbx #Fire DEVASTATING fire in St Francis Bay. Eastern Cape. Alot of damages caused by this fire and property destroyed.@NEWS24 @ewnreporter @eNCA @SABCNewsOnline pic.twitter.com/8snnaMtQ3I Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 