 Uitenhage - Volkswagen Group South Africa (VWSA) collected four awards, including the coveted Exporter of the Year title, at the 2019 Exporters Eastern Cape Awards held on Friday. The other awards won by VWSA included the Best Exporter in the OEM category and two third merit awards in the SJM Flex Environmental Award and the IDC Job Creation Award categories. VWSA previously won the SJM Flex award, which recognises exporters who pursue excellence in environmental management, on six occasions. The company has won the title of Exporter of the Year three times in 2011, 2017 and 2019. "Volkswagen has been a leader in the passenger car market for eight consecutive years," said Thomas Schaefer, Volkswagen Group South Africa Chairman and Managing Director. "These awards are testament to our success in the local production of the Polo and Polo Vivo, but also to our commitment to reducing the environmental impact of our production processes and creating meaningful jobs for the Eastern Cape community. "I am proud to be at the helm of an organisation that is contributing at this level to the local economy and the social betterment of the region," concluded Schaefer. Exporters Eastern Cape was founded in the Eastern Cape 39 years ago and is aimed at organisations involved in exporting, either directly or indirectly, and for organisations with an interest in exporting. There are approximately 160 organisations on the database, including industries such as automotive, pharmaceutical, agriculture and services. The judges for the Exporters Eastern Cape Awards come from varying backgrounds and sectors. Image: Nozipho Mdawe (left), Acting Chief Executive of Transnet National Ports Authority, and Exporters Eastern Cape chairman Quintin Levey (right) congratulating VWSA Chairman and Managing Director Thomas Schaefer (middle) on the company being named Exporter of the Year for 2019. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 