 King Williams Town - Do you these men? They are wanted by Eastern Cape police in cases that involve the harming and abduction of children in East London and Zwelitsha. "The Eastern Cape (FCS) Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit detectives are requesting the public to assist with information about whereabouts of Thanduxolo Mtshizana, 47, as it can assist the police in their investigation on a case of assault with an intent to cause grievous bodily harm case that was registered at Cambridge police station," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "It is alleged that he severely assaulted his biological children aged between 6 and 11 years old in November 2017. "Mtshizana was arrested and charged on the 16th November 2017. He escaped during trial at the East London Magistrate's Court on 15 October 2018 where he informed his lawyer that he was thirsty and went to buy a soft drink and never came back." Capt Tonjeni said that a warrant of arrest was issued, a manhunt was initiated but to no success. "Police are following all possible leads, he was last seen at Sea Point, Cape Town." In an unrelated incident, police are looking for Snethemba Sijula, 39, aka DJ Snee, who can assist the police in finalizing an investigation of a child abduction case. "Sijula allegedly abducted his own son, on his way back from school at Zwelitsha on 13th June 2019. "Our investigation team rescued the child in Gauteng and re-united him with the mother," said Capt Tonjeni. "The Zwelitsha Magistrate's Court issued a court order against Sijula not to take the child again. "Sijula contravened the court order and ubducted the child again. "Police would like to appeal to the members of the public to assist with information about the whereabouts of the suspect, Sinethemba Sijula since he has changed the address and resigned from work in Gauteng." Capt Tonjeni said that anyone with information about both suspects is urged to contact the investigating officer, Sergeant Sizwe Gaika of Eastern Cape Provincial FCS at 082 387 9178 or 040 658 8459. "All information will be treated in the most confidential way." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 