 Qumbu - The Qumbu Stock Theft Unit (STU) on Wednesday received information about goats suspected to have been stolen from Mgobozi location and kept in an abandoned house. "The 12 goats were recovered and impounded at the Qumbu municipality pound," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "A 30-year-old female suspect was arrested." She would appear at Qumbu Magistrate’s Court on Thursday facing a charge of possession of suspected stolen stock. In another unrelated incident on Wednesday, Lusikisiki Stock Theft Unit members conducted an anti-stock theft operation after complainants and information were received from Ndengani and Lambasi Administrative Area where nine missing cattle were reported. "The cattle has been recovered." One male suspect, aged 21 years, was arrested at Lusikisiki, while a second male suspect, aged 43, was also arrested on Thursday. "The cattle have been positively identified and handed to the lawful owner." The two suspects are expected to appear at Lusikisiki Magistrate’s Court on Friday facing a charge of possession of suspected stolen stock. “We have noted the increase in theft of stock and asked our Stock Theft Units to increase the heat on stock theft with intelligence driven operations way lay duties resulting in arrests of suspects and recoveries of stolen and missing stock," said Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. "Our efforts are aimed at breaking the backbone of stock theft and putting a full stop in trading in stolen stock and illicit market of selling meat from stock thieves." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 