 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape Provincial SAPS Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, on Thursday strongly condemned what she called the senseless murder of yet another young man in KwaZakhele and vowed that police will work around the clock to trace the perpetrators. "We condemn the killing in the strongest possible way. I therefore call on communities in the affected areas to urgently come together with the Cluster Commander, local Station Commanders and Community Police Forum (CPF) to discuss ways and means to assist each other to end this scourge,” said Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. Accoring to police information, another body was found burnt in KwaZakhele in the early hours of Thursday morning. "It is alleged that a call was received at about 01:25am on 01 August 2019 and police were immediately dispatched to the scene," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "On their arrival in front of 10008 Nkata Street, KwaZakhele, they noticed a male laying on his stomach with stones around him and burning tyres around his neck and waist. Both tyres were almost burnt out." He said that at the scene, there were about 70 community members and the deceased was identified by his brother as Sipho Sindisiwe Ngcoza, aged 26. “A team of seasoned Detectives has been assembled to look at all the dockets and ensure that the perpetrators are arrested and face the wrath of the law. We cannot allow a state of lawlessness where people kill others in revenge attacks. If people are suspected of being involved in crime and criminal activities, they must be handed over to the police,” added Lt Gen Ntshinga. Anyone with information about the murder/s is urged to contact Detective Colonel Marlize Dippenaar on 082 457 2507 or SAPS Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or any nearest police station. Callers can remain anonymous if they wish to. "All information will be treated with strictest confidentiality." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 