 Port Elizabeth - According to the South African National Convention Bureau, South Africa hosts about one million delegates at business events every year, supporting over 250 000 jobs directly and indirectly in this sub-sector alone. These events contribute R115 billion to the total annual GDP of SA, a whopping 9.4% of the country’s GDP. Corporates are clearly investing in business eventing, whether it is a business meeting, trade exhibition, gala dinner, an incentive drive or a conference. Cape Town takes the number-one spot as a globally competitive business destination, followed by Gauteng and Durban, with Nelson Mandela Bay getting a proportionately low percentage of the business. Local businesswoman, Caroline Morgan, is hoping that Nelson Mandela Bay will soon improve its position on this list. Nelson Mandela Bay is a magical slice of Africa which offers a wealth of leisure opportunities, including "Big Seven" game, viewed up close in a malaria-free environment, but more than this, it is an area devoted to "stress-free conferencing", as noted on the Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism website. The Nelson Mandela Bay is capable of hosting conferences, corporate events and private functions in a number of exciting venues in and around the Bay, supported by state-of-the-art technical support in different conference venues. In a move to assist in attracting conferences and tradeshows to our city, Morgan has developed a free listing website, www.nmbconvention.co.za. The website is an easy to use resource for event organisers, associations and companies who are looking for a venue for their next event. Besides a directory of service providers, the site gives a “top 10 reasons” to hold an event in Nelson Mandela Bay, as well as information about the area, and the facility to “ask a local” for more specific data. Morgan says: “There is a misconception that event services need to be imported from Cape Town or Johannesburg. This is not the case at all. Event organisers will find whatever they need, right here. We have an energetic and resourceful event industry in Nelson Mandela Bay. “Our city provides a wonderful base for events. From venues with a sea view, easy access to the airport, our buzzing art and coffee culture, the water-sport options... to the myriad of tours and trips that can be added onto the end of an event. We have so much to offer. “Where else in SA can you host a beach party for conference delegates ‘under the boardwalk’ as we regularly do under the Happy Valley bridge? It’s something they remember forever, and just one of the many special aspects of NMB”. Morgan encourages local businesses who provide services to the business event industry to list themselves on the website in order to show local, national and international corporates that Nelson Mandela Bay has the facilities and services providers to offer world class business eventing services. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 