 East London - Considering the tough economic environment, it has never been more important for small businesses in the logistics sector to keep their supply chains healthy and eliminate costly mistakes. Zak Sivalingum, FNB regional head, Gauteng East says, similar to cash flow management, good supply chain management can arguably be considered as the lifeblood of small businesses in the logistics sector. It plays a key role in managing the flow of goods and services between various stakeholders including, manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, shippers, retailers, wholesalers and customers. He highlights key supply chain mistakes that SMEs should aim to avoid: “Furthermore, technology helps in simplifying the communications process by enabling stakeholders and customers to have real-time access to information about goods and services. For example, some panel beaters now allow customers to log into their portals/websites to get live updates on vehicle repairs, from when the parts are being ordered, assembled and when the product is ready. "Similar technological investments are being made by SMEs to track the movement of goods from shipping to road transportation,” says Sivalingum. Moreover, investing in developing good relationships with suppliers can also result in improved efficiency, business referrals and a reduction of costs as the businesses form a strong mutual relationship. “Lastly, inadequate cash flow and working capital can severely impact a business’s ability to manage operations and its supply chain. SMEs end up in a desperate situation - making incorrect financial decisions, which lead to even greater cash flow challenges. Therefore, having a good relationship with a bank or financial institution that understands the business and can provide tailor made/specialist finance solutions to help with short-term and broader funding requirements, cannot be over emphasized,” concludes Sivalingum. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 