 Port Elizabeth - Police in Port Elizabeth are urging business owners to become more security conscious after receiving reports of business robberies that took place in the Mount Road SAPS cluster. "In one of the incidents, it is alleged that on Thursday, at approximately 12:45, a tavern in Sulo Street, Walmer, was robbed by five unknown males at gunpoint," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "Liquor and cash was taken." She said that on the same day, another business was allegedly robbed in Korsten where the suspects took money and a vehicle. "The vehicle was later recovered in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that in yet another unrelated incident on Friday, at approximately 11:38, a liquor outlet in Walker Drive was robbed. "It is alleged that the complainant and a co-worker were behind the counter when they sold airtime to an unknown man. He left and returned to the store with another man," she described. "The other two suspects were between the isles . They approached the counter and pointed the complainant and her co-worker with a firearm and demanded cash. Cash was taken. "It was alleged that the suspects fled in a grey Nissan NP200 bakkie with tinted windows. No one was injured during the robbery." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that police are requesting businesses to take note of people, who linger too long in their store without buying anything. "It is advisable to upgrade the security systems so that assistance could be activated as soon as they are aware that they are being robbed. Make arrangements with the security companies to do frequent patrols during the quiet times both during the night and day," she said. "These are the times that robbers usually strike on their victims. Never get too relaxed and think that it would never happen to your business. Criminals will always look for an opportunity to commit a crime." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 