 Alice - Police say students with luggage and bags are slowly trickling out of the University of Fort Hare's Alice campus following a the University management's decision to send them home.  STATEMENT REGARDING SUSPENSION OF ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES IN OUR ALICE CAMPUS https://t.co/frX0Lw7mj3 Studies are expected to resume on 2 September 2019. There have been disruptions to academic business this week at the campus after a group of students tried to set alight the kitchen where food for catering is stored. According to police information, security saw the fire before it could spread and called in the fire brigade, which put the fire out. "Some students seem reluctant to comply to this decision and still maintain their presence at the campus," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "Public Order Police continue to monitor the situation." There had been running battles between the police and students on campus with reports of some students getting injured in the ensuing chaos. A video circulating online also purports to show Alice campus students chasing after two cows that had strayed on the campus.  Bethuna. Yho ha.a ???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? pic.twitter.com/4EPcnCutoP The cows were apparently butchered while still alive and students carried away the meat. He said that three male students, aged between 20 and 22 years, are expected to appear at the Alice Magistrate's Court on Friday facing a charge of burglary. "They were arrested on Wednesday for breaking into the campus kitchen to steal chicken." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 