 Burgersdorp - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Monday said that an actively running sewage spill is putting the health and water safety of the residents of Burgersdorp and the Eastern Cape at risk. "Recently I came across this sewage spill during an oversight inspection conducted at Mzamomhle in Burgersdorp," described Marina van Zyl Cllr - Joe Gqabi District Municipality. "The spill is located close to the Ethembeni Senior Secondary School and learners and all local residents are therefore exposed to a massive health risk. "The untreated sewage is flowing directly into the Stormberg River. This river flows to the Orange River, which feeds into the Gariep Dam. The Gariep Dam is the largest storage reservoir in South Africa and supplies hundreds of thousands of people with water." Van Zyl said that they further discovered that the Mzamomhle waste water treatment plant control room has been vandalised and that the plant is non-operational.    "This is the only waste water treatment plant in Burgersdorp and the health risk to the town is a real threat. "On 17 July I posed questions to the Joe Gqabi District Municipality regarding the sewage spill and the crisis at the waste water treatment plant," she said. "I was informed the municipality had secured funds and that the implementation of an upgrade is imminent. No clear time frames were given. (Read letter HERE) Van Zyl said that the DA’s Shadow MEC for the Department of Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism, Yusuf Cassim, MPL,  has already written to the MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA), Xolile Nqatha, requesting his urgent intervention. (Read letter HERE) "Furthermore, questions regarding the situation have been submitted to the MEC by the DA’s Shadow MEC for GOGTA, Vicky Knoetze, MPL," she said. (Read letter HERE) "We are still awaiting his feedback." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 