 Port Elizabeth - Following the huge growth in digital offerings, Boomtown has appointed Marion Marais as Senior Social Media Manager to lead the agency’s innovative approach to digital. Digital marketing has changed rapidly over the years, and entrepreneurs and brands are increasingly relying on the medium to deliver results. According to Boomtown MD, Andrew MacKenzie, “Increased awareness of the value of digital marketing has driven the agency’s focus in this direction. New and existing clients are trusting digital more and it’s not just part of an integrated campaign, it is leading campaigns. Because of this growth, we needed to bolster the department.” An experienced digital marketer, Marais will lead the agency’s innovative thinking forward by placing ‘paid social media’ and ‘always-on content’ into communications strategies. Marais will oversee and create content for campaigns and concepts; and will manage digital and social campaigns with a community management team. Talking about her role at Boomtown, Marais says, “It’s all about the tangible. Many forget that we’re talking to humans, so I like to uncover statistics and insights about people and use them to identify how we want people to feel when they engage with client brands.” “As digital grows, consumers and brands are becoming more aware that it’s not just about growing numbers; it’s about creating engagement. Are we converting, or merely driving traffic? Are we resonating with consumers’ values, or attracting the wrong market? If so, what’s the solution?” The rapidly growing digital team is currently working on three emotive campaigns - a heartfelt Heritage Month campaign for a much-loved South African coffee brand; a digital marketing campaign for Sovereign Foods, one of the country’s largest poultry producers; and an exhilarating Bronx Woman campaign. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 