 Port Elizabeth - South African Police Service says it remains resolute in curbing the proliferation of illicit and counterfeit goods in the Eastern Cape Province and their efforts continue to pay off. "While busy with Operation Basadi at Ngqura Port of Entry on Tuesday, the Ngqura Border Police Women’s Network received information about a shop in Korsten, Port Elizabeth, selling suspected counterfeit cell phone accessories," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "It is alleged that Spoor and Fisher patent attorneys, who are experts and representatives of brand owners within the province, were engaged. "At about 09:30, the members started with the operation in Durban Road, Korsten. " Col Soci said that at one of the shops, the following goods with an estimated value of R1 521 650.00 were recovered: • 1 260 x Samsung Batteries; • 415 x Samsung Phone Covers; • 26 x Samsung Batteries for Tablets; • 11 x Samsung Micro SD Cards;• 1826 x Samsung Sheets; • 942 x Samsung Chargers;• 59 x Samsung Ear Pods; • 1 x Samsung Ear phone. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, thanked the law abiding citizens for continuing to share credible information with the SAPS and also thanked the members for not hesitating, but follow the information as soon as they receive it. “We will continue to stamp the authority of the State and will not allow our province to be the hideout spot for illegal traders fleeing from other provinces. Efforts to make significant dents in the illegal trade of counterfeit goods will continues as these counterfeit goods pose an economic risk against to our country,” said Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 