 Humansdorp - The South African Police Service in St Francis Bay have launched a manhunt for two male suspects who robbed an elderly couple in Sardinia 'Weg', St Francis Bay at about 17:00 on Thursday. "It is alleged that the housekeeper was busy outside the house, when she was approached by two unknown males armed with firearms," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "The suspects pushed the housekeeper to the inside of the house and tied her up. "The suspects then tied the 76-year-old woman and her 78-year-old husband up and covered all three victims mouths with sellotape." Capt Swart said that the suspects then ransacked the house and also assaulted the elderly couple during the robbery. "The suspects demanded the keys of the safe and the 76-year-old woman was forced to unlock it. The suspects took an undisclosed amount of cash and other valuables and fled the scene on foot." She adde that the housekeeper managed to alert the neighbours at around 19:00, who immediately alerted the ambulance services and the police of the robbery. "Neighbours also discovered the elderly man lying face down in the living room, with his hands still bound and his mouth covered. The medics discovered that the elderly man had passed on," Capt Swart said. "The cause of death is not known at this stage. The two female victims were severely traumatized and taken for medical treatment. "The name of the 78-year-old man will be released on a later stage. "Police have opened a case of house robbery and a second count of murder." Humansdorp SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, condemned the attack on the vulnerable elderly victims in the strongest possible terms. He said: "Members from the South African Police Service will not rest until the suspects are apprehended". St Francis Bay detectives are currently following up on all possible leads. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 