 St Francis Bay - Humansdorp SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, has applauded detectives from St Francis Bay, after the successful arrest of a 35-year-old St Francis Bay male on Monday afternoon in connection with a house robbery in which an elderly man died. "Detectives from St Francis Bay worked around the clock and followed up on all possible leads, which led them to the apprehension of the suspect in Bureau Street, Humansdorp," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "The suspect is due to appear in the Humandorp Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. "The suspect will face charges of house robbery and the murder of the 76-year-old Duncan Lethbridge." She said that more arrests are expected soon. "The Post Mortem results are not available as yet and will be released after it was completed." According to police information, the robbery happened at a home in Sardinia Road, St Francis Bay, at about 17:00 onThursday. "It is alleged that the housekeeper was busy outside the house, when she was approached by two unknown males armed with firearms. The suspects pushed the housekeeper to the inside of the house and tied her up," said Capt Swart. "The suspects then tied the 71-year-old female and her 76-year-old husband up and covered all three victims mouths with sellotape. The suspects then ransacked the house and also assaulted the elderly couple during the robbery. The suspects demanded the keys of the safe and the 71-year-old woman was forced to unlock it. "The suspects  took an undisclosed amount of cash and other valuables from the house and fled the scene on foot.  The housekeeper managed to alert  the neighbours by 19:00, on the same evening, who immediately alerted the ambulance services and the police of the robbery." It was then that the neighbours also discovered the elderly man lying face down in the living room, with his hands still bound and his mouth covered. "The medics discovered that the elderly man had passed on." The two female victims were severely traumatized and taken for medical treatment. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 