 Maletswai - Maletswai police are investigating an inquest docket after a 12-month-old baby died in a shack fire. The fire also claimed the baby's father. "On Saturday, two Maletswai police station members were patrolling in Area 13 locality when they notice a fire near Brickfield. Upon arrival at the scene, they found a woman crying out that her 12-month-old baby was inside the burning shack," described police spokeperon, Warrant Officer Moitheri Bojabotseha. "The fire department was called to the scene, as well as the Emergency Medical Services. "The woman’s husband, aged 30, was found on the outside of the shack with multiple visible burn wounds." Warrant Officer Bojabotseha said that the fire brigade extinguished the fire. "Unfortunately, the lives of the husband and child could not be saved. The cause of the fire is yet to be established." In an unrelated incident, Maletswai police have opened an inquest docket after a 42-year-old male was found dead in his shack by family members on Saturday, at 16:30. "The deceased male, who was certified dead by the Emergency Medical Services at the scene, was found with an apparent nose bleed and swollen mouth and was not clothed on his upper body," said W/O Bojabotseha. "There were no open wounds or any indication of an assault on the body; therefore, at this stage, the police are not suspecting foul play." Aliwal North SAPS Cluster Commander, Colonel Mpho Rabela, sends condolences to the families and friends affected by both incidents. He also commends the dedication of the SAPS members, who deal with stressful situations as the first responders. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 