 Port Elizabeth - With a firm belief in growing its talent through professional development and mentorship, Boomtown wants its people to realise their full potential. With this, and an individual desire to grow and achieve their best, the agency has promoted two of its client services team, Lwando Marambana and Lisa Snyman, to Account Director and Account Manager. Talking about the promotion, Boomtown MD, Andrew MacKenzie says, “Lwando and Lisa have shown exceptional growth. Lwando has a driving ambition to assist the agency in its Johannesburg operations and has grown tremendously over the last year. "We are confident that his skill set, experience in the FMCG category, and business acumen will be an asset to not only Boomtown, but also the clients we partner with, and he is certainly part of our long-term growth strategy in the region. “Lisa is based in our Port Elizabeth office and has gained valuable experience on a cross-section of government accounts. Her insight into this sector will play a vital role in the agency’s expansion into this area. We are all excited about the opportunity and the potential it presents for Lisa and Boomtown.” Both Lwando and Lisa began at Boomtown as part of the Bayeza internship programme, and their progress in the advertising industry demonstrates the success of the internship scheme in producing quality professionals who further the industry.  The senior leadership team at Boomtown believes in backing their team members and helping employees to achieve their goals, which ultimately creates a win, win situation. Leadership regularly discusses plans, growth objectives and career paths with individuals and then works with them to ensure they achieve their ambitions. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 