 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape on Friday said that it is deeply concerned by the allegations, which were in a local paper about the contamination of rivers with untreated sewage, which might result in cholera outbreak in almost five municipalities. "In the past weeks alone, a truck was caught dumping untreated sewage at Mthatha Dam," said SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson, Siyabonga Mdodi. "We call on the Department of Water and Sanitation to get to the bottom of these allegations and to test these and other rivers because this will affect the great majority of the poor in the province, who have had the indignity of sharing water with animals in rivers and streams." Mdodi said that if these allegations are found to be true, decisive action should be taken against the culprits who place the lives of the poor at such risk. "Such action, ought to take place urgently to fix the matter firmly in the eyes of all that the lives of the people are precious and need to be protected," he added. "Our structures have been engaged in a relentless struggle in support of our communities that have been denied access to water as a result of the privatization of water by some farmers and private companies which has resulted in the poor struggling to eke out a living." Mdodi sad that if there is an outbreak of cholera, it is the majority of the poor, who are squashed in shacks and others marooned in rural areas with little to no access to clean running water. "It is in this context that we call on the Municipalities tasked with the responsibility of providing clean running water to our communities to perform their responsibility. "We have seen a trend, where there is privatization of water provision through trucks which seek to enrich a parasitic elite that has captured some elements of the local state and is responsible for the scarcity of water in some areas because it makes more money through Municipalities renting trucks," he added. "As an organization, we will engage in a continuous struggle to reverse this situation and we call on our communities to rise and defend their right to clean running water and to provide whatever information they have on the pollution of rivers with untreated sewage. "As the SACP, we are calling for de-commodification of all basic services." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 