 East London - It’s not just retired executives that are looking to make an encore career in the corporate boardroom, with technology continuing to change the business landscape younger people are also looking for a seat at the table. So what can you earn as a board member? Roger Hitchcock, Senior Partner at the Sirdar Group shares some insight on the earning potential of a board member as well as trends and factors that contribute to the earning potential across various sectors. Based on the recent Sirdar research findings, for companies with turnovers below R697 million, fees ranged from R10 500 to R470 000 per annum. Companies turning over between R697 million and R1,4 billion paid non-executive directors between R97 000 and R317 000. Companies with turnovers above R1,4 billion set their fees between R92 000 and R1 million per annum. In South Africa, PwC noted that the median chairperson fee across the entire JSE has risen to R595,000 (from R566, 000 in 2017), while overall fees for non-executive directors at the median level increased from R492,000 to R518,000. Ultimately directors are paid based on ‘what they can negotiate’. There is a range of practices currently being implemented, from ‘meeting fees’ through to fixed rates and retainers. The best practice for Independent Directors is for there to be NO link between the amounts paid and the short-term performance of the company (i.e. equity based). This is currently very much a developing area and a work in progress There does tend to be a number of remuneration thresholds for different sizes of business (size both in revenue and in terms of number of employees) as well as for different business sectors. These will logically remain underlying contributors to the way remuneration of directors is determined since the size and nature of different companies does determine the amounts payable and amounts different companies can afford. They will however probably become less and less of a primary or determining factor as the need to both secure and keep the right people on the board become more and more important. In light of this, there are some other key points to take into account in determining what remuneration should and could include The remuneration framework of the board should be included as part of the remuneration framework of the entire business. The board needs to oversee the development of this framework (which would include the elements to take into account in determining individual remuneration). The current thinking (and growing practice) is that this remuneration framework be put to the Shareholders for approval (at the AGM). This is currently a non-binding opinion where it is being practiced – but it’s anticipated that this will become more and more of an issue as compensation, of both executives and directors, continues to be a ‘hot-topic’ in the governance space. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 