 Port Elizabeth - Port Elizabeth police are investigating two incidents of mob justice after two 30-year-old males were murdered by groups of persons on Tuesday and on Wednesday morning. "On Wednesday morning, at about 04:50, police and ambulance services were alerted to a naked male lying in Sakhuba Street, Zwide, after he was attacked by a group of persons," said police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "His hands and feet were bound in wire and there was a rope around his neck. He had multiple injuries due to being severely assaulted with unknown objects or weapons. "His body was partially burnt and was wearing a blue pants and green shirt." Capt Beetge said that this followed after another unrelated incident on Tuesday when the burnt body of another 30-year-old male was found in a storm water channel behind Mboniselo Primary School in Mandela Village, Ikamvelihle, at about 09:30. "The male victim's hands were bound behind his back and his body covered in injuries from a severe assault by a group of unknown suspects. His body was also burnt using flammable objects." He added that both victims' identities remain unknown but are both estimated to be about 30 years old. "In the meantime a crack police detective team dealing with all vigilate attack (mob justice) murders arrested five suspects on Tuesday night in Kwazakele. They have been linked to the murder of 23 year old Sinethemba Gwatya on 29 July 2019. He was murdered by a group of suspects after they severely assaulted him and then set his body alight using tyres," Capt Beetge described. "The five suspects, which includes four males, aged between 32 and 47 years old, and a 37-year-old female were detained at New Brighton police station. "A group of community gathered at the gates of the police station on Wednesday morning demanding their release, but after Public Order Police (POPS) intervention, the group dispersed by noon. "The five suspects will be appearing before the New Brighton Magistrate's Court on Thursday to face charges of murder." Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, applauded the arrests and repeated the warning that "The SAPS cannot allow communities to take the law into their own hands by becoming a community of killers and killing persons in the streets. Any person taking part in such activities will be arrested and charged with murder." Any person that can assist police in these murder cases can contact Detective Lt Colonel Marlize Dippenaar at 082 457 2507. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 