 Port Elizabeth - The South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd (SANRAL) would like to notify travellers that roadworks is scheduled to take place on the R75 between Port Elizabeth and Despatch from Monday, 26 August 2019 to Thursday, 29 August 2019. The planned traffic accommodation is as follows:  * The left lane between Spondo Road and Johnson Road will be closed for 600m during the day and reopened during peak hours when travelling from Port Elizabeth towards Despatch.  * The left lane between Johnson Road and Chelsea Road will be closed for 1.7km during the day and reopened during peak hours when travelling from Port Elizabeth towards Despatch.  * The left lane between Chelsea Road and Ralo Road will be closed for 1.5km during the day and reopened during peak hours when travelling from Port Elizabeth towards Despatch.  * The left lane on the approach to Mission Road Arterial will be closed for 400m during the day and reopened during peak hours when travelling from Port Elizabeth towards Despatch.  * The left lane between Ralo Road and Chelsea Road will be closed for 400m during the day and reopened during peak hours when travelling from Despatch towards Port Elizabeth.  * The left lane between Chelsea Road and Johnson Road will be closed for 1.2km during the day and reopened during peak hours when travelling from Despatch towards Port Elizabeth.  * The left lane between Johnson Road and Spondo Road will be closed for 1.4km during the day and reopened during peak hours when travelling from Port Elizabeth towards Despatch.  * Night time closures between 19:00 and 05:00 are expected at the following intersections: The R75 and Johnson Road; the R75 and Chelsea Road; and the R75 and Ralo Road.  * Roadworks are expected to take place at the following intersections: The R75 and Dyke Road; the R75 and St. Leonards Road; the R75 and Spondo Road; the R75 and Johnson Road; the R75 and Chelsea Road; and the R75 and Ralo Road.  “Motorists are asked to plan their trips accordingly, consider alternative routes and to use caution when making use of the road,” said Mbulelo Peterson, SANRAL Southern Region’s Manager.  SANRAL apologizes for any inconvenience caused. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 