 Port Elizabeth - Police in Port Elizabeth have appealed to the public for assistance in tracing a missing person, who was reported missing to Kwazakele police. In the first report, a seven-year-old boy went missing in Gaika Street in Kwazakele. "His 68-year-old grandmother, who cares for him, reported on Tuesday night at 23:00 that she last saw Philasande Gilibi playing in the street with other children at about 14:00," said police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "He was still dressed in his school uniform, a grey pants, white shirt and a black and white jersey. "After she returned from a Women's Day function, at about 22:00, she realised that the boy has gone missing and notified police." Capt Beetge said that the resulting police search, which involved looking at possible hiding places, visiting the homes of friends and family, as well as visiting his school on Wednesday morning to interview his fellow class mates, they culd not locate the boy. "His mother was located later on Wednesday morning, who then assisted police in locating and finding the boy's father in Motherwell, where the boy was found safe and sound." Capt Beetge said that the failure of the father to notify the grandmother is still being investigated. In the second incident, 53-year-old Mlungisi Michael Saloso was reported missing by his girlfriend at 17:30 on Tuesday. "She reported that she last saw Mr Saloso at 07:00 on 01 August 2019 at her home in Skefile Street, Kwazakele," Capt Beetge said. "He uses crutches as his left leg has been amputated above the knee. "Any person that can assist police in finding Mr Saloso can contact the Kwazakele police at 082 470 3134 or 08600 10111." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  