 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela University (NMU) on Monday said that management decided to cancel classes on its North and South campuses in Port Elizabeth following a violent stand off between protesting students and university staff early on Monday morning. "Gates to North & South were blockaded early this [morning]," the NMU Tweeted. "When staff tried to unblock barricades it almost escalated into violence. "Management has temporarily halted all student transport as a precautionary measure. There is 1 police unit monitoring the situation." The university later Tweeted: Update 2: Based on further consultation, Management have taken a decision to host lectures via alternative methods today (Monday, 26 August 2019) until further notice on all PE campuses. All efforts will continue to maintain accessibility on North and South campuses. In a statement on Sunday, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Student Command (EFFSC) at the Nelson Mandela University, announced a protest set for Monday.  The EFFSC announced it will be marching to the university's safety and security office to complain and inquire on plans of the university to ensure the safety of students on and off campus "looking especially at the recent incidents". "This is to confirm that tomorrow morning ,the 26th of August 2019, there will be a March on campus, we have seen rare incidents transpiring on and off campus where some students were being mugged and robbed," said Gift Ndumndum, Media and communications officer for the EFFSC at the NMU. "This means that there's a probability of detrimental incidents such as rape and death, so as EFFSC, the movement that cares and love students,we are capable of eradicating hostiles, hence we ask all Nelson Mandela university students to collaborate with us with the purpose to revive safety and protection in our institution, as gazzetted by the constitution of the republic. "Meeting point is the entrance nearby North Campus . "As long as we continue to be victims of crime, we won't rest. Lives of students are at stake." Meanwhile, the NMU announced over the weekend that measures had been taken to address security concerns on campus. The university Tweeted: University addressing criminal activity in and around campus https://t.co/yFOOB4nTrM via @MandelaUni   Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  