 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature Speaker, Ms Helen Sauls-August, is expected in Port Elizabeth on Friday where she will open a Parliamentary Constituency Office in the Nelson Mandela Metro. "The opening of the Parliamentary Constituency Office at the Florence Matomela Building is part of the 6th Legislature Programme of fostering public participation and is intended to be a direct link between the public and the Legislature," said her spokesperson, Lwandile Sicwetsha. "The establishment of Parliamentary Constituency Offices (PCO’s), is a deliberate effort to ensure effective and direct accountability to the people by public representatives and ensure citizens play active role in deepening democracy and culture of human rights, mobilise people to take part in changing their lives." Sicwetsha said that the Legislature recognises the need for greater prominence as the major role player in building an activist legislature thus ensuring people centred approach in all its programmes. "The Legislature has developed a constituency model which is intended to guide linkages between the Legislature and the constituency offices which includes effective use of constituency offices by political parties," he added. "The Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature has set aside an amount of R61 million rands for constituency fund for all political parties. The protest actions witnessed recently throughout the province demand that, political parties espouse critical relationships with all constituencies and sectors. "While people have constitutional right to protest, the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature promotes use of the Legislature channels such as Constituency Offices, petitions for the public to air their grievances and condemns destruction of public property during community protests." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 