 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) on Tuesday launched its Kumdaka eBhayi - Nelson Mandela Bay is Dirty, campaign at a site of illegal dumping in Motherwell, Port Elizabeth. The DA accused the United Democratic Movement (UDM) / African National Congress (ANC) / Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) coalition of corruption government in Nelson Mandela Bay has failed the people of the City by not ensuring that they live in a clean and healthy environment. "I was joined by DA Federal Chairperson, Athol Trollip, and local councillors and residents in launching this very important initiative," said Yusuf Cassim MPL - Ngqura Constituency Leader. "Our communities, and especially people living in the townships of Nelson Mandela Bay,  are living in filth whilst the uncaring government is dragging its feet in dealing with illegal dumping. "The situation is having an adverse effect on the health of residents and is slowly robbing them of their dignity." Cassim said that during this campaign, the DA will be driving a petition on the ground, "but we will also be conducting oversight inspections at waste transfer and illegal dumping sites, engaging with the community and community stakeholders through public meetings, and organising mini clean-ups to assist in keeping our communities clean". He added that the DA has a simple plan that would immediately make an impact in the fight against illegal dumping.  Cassim said that the plan states: "The DA will not rest until the municipality gives it full attention to the suffering of the residents of our townships and we will make sure that their concerns and the signed petition is delivered to Nelson Mandela Bay Executive Mayor, Cllr Mongameli Bobani," he added. "Only a DA government can speed up service delivery, build a clean City and ensure the dignity of all NMB residents." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 