 Bhisho - Eastern Cape Premier Lubabalo Mabuyane has tasked Mayors of Eastern Cape Municipalities and MECs of the provincial government departments to attend to service delivery rollout to communities as a matter of urgency. He has directed Mayors to work closely with communities to provide basic services like water and to explain information to communities about delays and interruptions of provision of any services on time to avoid unrest. Premier Mabuyane said, where provision of services is not happening as planned this and the solution being sort by government must be explained to communities, processes of government for rolling out services to communities must be explained thoroughly so that communities do not have to protest for services. Premier Mabuyane condemned the destruction of property, closing of roads by protesting communities in Butterworth, some parts of Amathole district municipality and in the Enoch Mgijima municipality. He has tasked the Cooperative Governance, Traditional Affairs MEC, Xolile Nqatha to resolve the causes of the challenges that led to the protests experienced by some municipalities recently in order for municipalities to function optimally in delivering services to the people of the province. Premier Mabuyane also called on communities to stop blocking roads, destroying public and private property when they protest, he calls on workers to stop sabotaging provision of services during their labour protests or disputes. The Premier said closing water pumps and sabotaging provision of services to communities is an act of criminality and he called on the Police to act against any individual or group breaking the laws of the country. Mabuyane welcomed the report he received from the municipality signaling that the Amathole District Municipality will be signing an agreement with the workers, suspending the protest by some of the municipalities workers. This means restoration of services that were sabotaged during this protest. Regarding the protest in Senqu municipality over a road in ward 13, on Friday the Eastern Cape Transport MEC, Ms Weziwe Tikana will be introducing the contractor appointed by the department to work on the road and she will also detail the scope of work to be done by the contractor. During the meeting, MEC Tikana will also address complaints from the community about roads. Premier Mabuyane said the leadership of the Enoch Mgijima Municipality has been directed to end the current impasse facing the municipality, attend to all the issues raised by the stakeholders in order for the municipality to return to normality. The Premier said it is not right for the workers of the municipality to undermine the human rights of the community, and the community’s rights to access services from the municipality. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 