 Port Elizabeth - The Coega Development Corporation (CDC) today announced it has exceeded 120 000 jobs created through its programmes across the country, which have enriched the livelihood of many indigenous people. According to Sarah Baartman (44), from Colchester, a general worker at the Ikhono construction site, the job opportunity, “has helped me provide for myself as well as my children.” These are also sentiments highlighted by Lawrence Dylon (25), from Bethelsdorp, who is currently plowing his trade as a general worker on the same site. “I value the skills I have obtained during my employment on this project, it does not only limit me here but also allows me to access other opportunities outside of Coega.” Whilst, celebrating women, during the month of August, Thandaza Baartman (37), who is working as a safety representative at the Ikhono construction site, highlighted how the job has enhanced her career ambitions: “I had been unemployed for a long time, when this opportunity came, I took it with both hands.” “The sentiments echoed are a testimony of many workers currently plowing their trade on Coega projects.” says Dr. Ayanda Vilakazi, CDC’s Head of Marketing, Brand and Communications. Coega continues to serve as the leading pioneer for socio-economic development through groundbreaking efforts that ensure standards of sustainable growth are met. Projects within the CDC have facilitated economic growth through job creation, particularly for the youth of this region. “By year-end 2019/20, the CDC is projecting an increase in the number of operational investors in the Coega SEZ at fifty (50), making Coega the most successful and leading SEZ in Africa,” highlights Dr. Vilakazi. The CDC, is celebrating its 20th anniversary in 2019 and a total of 120 990 jobs have been created through the Coega project (from 112 974 last year) since establishment in 1999. “Many indigenous people of the Eastern Cape have felt the impact. We have also provided training to more than 100 000 people, most of whom are women and youth,” highlights Dr. Vilakazi. With 45 operational investors/tenants in the Coega SEZ who have made Coega a success and contributed to job creation, the SEZ remains the top achiever in South Africa, not to mention the achieved R9.53 Billion in Foreign Direct Investment and more than R280 billion in the pipeline including the R40 billion 1000MW LNG project. The top investors with the highest number of operational jobs created since establishment include, amongst others, Dynamics Commodities (858 jobs), Discovery (1148 jobs), WNS (592 jobs) and Coega Dairy (305 jobs). Main image: EMPOWERING GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT FOR THE EC REGION: Workers of Ikhono Construction: (from left to right) - Thandaza Baartman (37), Lawrence Dylon (25) and Sarah Baartman (44) Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 