 Port Elizabeth - Recent water outages in Nelson Mandela Bay prove that Mayor Cllr Mongameli Bobani and "his failing coalition of corruption have no contingency plans when unexpected crises occur", the Democratic Alliance (DA) said. "Areas in Uitenhage and Despatch have been without water for 6 days whilst reparations to a burst main water pipeline have been delayed due to the tragic death of a contract worker," said Masixole Zinto Cllr - DA NMB Spokesperson for Infrastructure and Engineering. "Lindile Makapela died on Monday afternoon when the trench he was working in was suddenly submerged in water. "The DA would like express its sincerest condolences to the family of Mr Makapela and wish them strength during this trying time." Zinto said that investigations by the South African Police Service (SAPS) and the Department of Labour are necessary, but the extended period of time it took to complete these investigations is unacceptable. "The department only released the site yesterday afternoon and prohibited workers from working last night. This determination sets a dangerous precedent as prohibiting emergency work at night will create massive service delivery issues in future," he described. "Water is a basic human right and denying residents access to running water is therefore a gross violation of these rights. "Although water tankers were made available by the Municipality, these were not nearly enough. In future the Metro should look to neighbouring municipalities to assist in providing additional water trucks." Zinto said that this crisis could have been avoided if the Member of Mayoral Committee for Infrastructure and Engineering, Cllr Andile Lungisa, and his department had spent the budget available to them on the maintenance and upgrading of water infrastructure. "We do, however, commend the municipal officials and all other site workers for their tireless efforts to restore supply to the affected areas." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 