 East London – The Eastern Cape Department of Education (ECDoE) is taking its classrooms into the fourth industrial revolution (4IR) by introducing information and communication technology (ICT) in education. ICT devices have been distributed to educators across the province to advance the teaching and learning performance. The ECDoE has recognised that the integration of ICT is key to improving learner outcomes and will be hosting a Technology in Education Roundtable. This two-day workshop event taking place 3-4 September 2019 in East London will be attended by leaders in the Eastern Cape education sector. The objective of the roundtable is to drive the adoption of ICT to enable the Eastern Cape e-learning strategy. “The proliferation of connected mobile devices in society has given us the impetus to change the entire public education systems to leverage these smart tools to empower educators in producing higher performing learners,” says Temba Kojana, ECDoE Head of Department (HoD). He further adds “This roundtable is integral to the change management process that will ensure the success of the project.” In partnership with the ECDoE, OPECS through Vodacom, is driving and coordinating the Change Management Programme for the ECDoE’s Connect Project. The Connect Project, which is in its last phase of delivering ICT devices to educators, aims to accelerate the adoption, usage and sustainability of ICT in education. The roundtable discussions are expected to drive a coherent digital transformation agenda when implementing the e-learning strategy which will inherently address the 4IR. “Through various interventions going forward, we want to walk the journey of unpacking what e-learning means in practical terms and mobilise all departments in enhancing teaching for elevated learning outcomes,” Kojana concludes. “The future of education is driven by technology and no learner in the Eastern Cape will be left behind.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 