 East London - With three women dying at the hands of their partners every day in South Africa, turning the tide on a national crisis of gender-based violence will take more than slogans and summits, and cannot be fully effective without data and performance monitoring to measure the impact of government interventions. While the budget speech delivered last month  mentioned a national strategic plan to “stop the carnage” by September 2019 and welcomed the move to activate “budget support and planning for interventions” addressing Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and femicide, there is a risk of failure unless mechanisms to track the true extent of the problem and the effectiveness of the strategies are in place, says  Dr Nthabiseng Moleko, Development Economist at the University of Stellenbosch Business School and contributor to the 2019 South African Board for People Practices (SABPP) Women’s Report, themed Women and Politics, launched on Thursday. “It is not clear how an effective strategy will be developed in the absence of indices and data to contribute to a national monitoring framework with performance indicators to monitor trends, incidence of GBV and measure the impact of interventions,” she said. Dr Moleko, a Commissioner of the Commission for Gender Equality, said institutions and resources already existing should be better deployed, coordinated and monitored, rather than creating new and overlapping institutions. Pointing to the failure to implement resolutions of previous gender summits, she warned against “the creation of a web of institutional mechanisms, which, if not properly established, will only lead to duplication and overlapping of roles, and ineffective use of resources, culminating in a repetition of the same mistakes”. Her article “Do we have the tracking tools to monitor the National Gender Machinery” examines the current and previous efforts to curb gender-based violence, and makes recommendations to government for mechanisms to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the planned interventions. Dr Moleko said gender-based violence “affects the very fabric of our society”. “It is of utmost importance that we establish both policy and institutional responses to measure and effectively reduce the incidence of GBV. It is not simply a phenomenon that occurs at home, it leaves traces across society and costs the nation dearly through a loss of productivity, a rise in absenteeism, and social grant dependence. “Further reliance on the state for health care support, policing and judicial resources, social protection, and insurance places greater demands on already limited state resources. The loss suffered by individual women and children is immeasurable, and not something anyone should be forced to suffer in a civilised society,” Dr Moleko said. She said that violence against women and children had heightened over the past decade, with South Africa’s femicide rate now five times higher than the global average, and more than one in five women experiencing physical violence, worsening to one in three in low-income areas. The Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation (CSVR) had found that South Africa had the world’s highest rate of rape, estimated at 138 rapes per 100,000 women in 2017, she said. “The statistics point towards a government and society crippled by an inability to protect women and, especially concerning, children. We clearly need to develop more than just reactive slogans and media responses to the incidence of such systemic violations and tragedies. The emphasis should rather be on monitoring the effectiveness and impact of interventions,” she said. Dr Moleko said that more than 10 institutions made up a comprehensive “national gender machinery” to promote gender equality and prevent gender-based violence, including parliamentary committees and structures, the Ministry of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, and the justice cluster. “In December 2018, the President established a 30-member team of experts to assess the status of women in the country, reviewing what the government has done to change the quality of life of women. Improved co-ordination and collaboration between the Ministry of Women, the Commission for Gender Equality, and other gender-related institutions (including this newly appointed task team) will reduce duplication and overlapping of roles. “Resources should be allocated to finance a team of statisticians and researchers within the Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities working in collaboration with the Auditor General, the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Statistics SA, and the Commission for Gender Equality, to ensure that targets are effectively monitored and that performance is evaluated with measurable indicators,” Dr Moleko recommends. Her recommendations for ensuring the effectiveness of implementing the decisions of the 2018 GBV Summit include: More about the author: Dr Nthabiseng Moleko is a Development Economist that serves as a Commissioner of the Commission for Gender Equality and former Deputy Chairperson of the Ikaha TVET College Council. She serves on the Board of Trustees of the National Empowerment Fund and is a former CEO of the Joe Gqabi Economic Development Agency in the Eastern Cape. She has worked extensively in economic development and was selected by the African Institute of Financial Markets and Risk Management (AIFMRM) as a leading future African researcher in finance and economics. Moleko lectures in Economics and Statistics at the University of Stellenbosch Business School (USB) where she has recently completed her PhD in Development Finance. About the Women’s Report: The 2019 SABPP Women’s Report focuses on the life and work of women in South Africa, with this year’s theme Women and Politics. The report, compiled in collaboration with the University of Stellenbosch Business School (USB) and the University of Johannesburg, is available to download from sabpp.co.za/sabpp-womens-report Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 