 Port Elizabeth - Most parts of Eastern Cape province have experienced a lack of rain in recent months and this has led to a decline in dam levels. According to the weekly dam levels report issued by the Department of Water and Sanitation, the combined average water levels in the province were at 56.4% on Thursday last week. "These levels show a decline in the provincial water storage compared to the same period last year when the province has water storage of 60.9%," said Sputnik Ratau, Spokesperson for the Department of Water and Sanitation. He sid that the Algoa Water Supply System with dams supplying water to Nelson Mandela Bay has declined to 42.2% (a 0.4% from the previous week). "However, the system has improved compared to a meagre 18.4% during the same period last year." Meanwhile, the Amathole Water Supply System, supplying water to Buffalo City also declined to 55.7% from 56.5% the previous week. "A significant drop is noted in this system as it was bursting at the seams during the same period last year at 82.3%," Ratau said. "The Kliplaat Water Supply System with dams supplying Chris Hani District was at 43.4% from 44.1% the previous week. "The system was at 70.5% during the same period last year." According to Ratau, the rest of the dams in the Eastern Cape were at the following levels: "The consistent decline of dam levels in Eastern Cape signifies that water saving measures need to be tightened by all water users to ensure water security for all," Ratau said. "The Department of Water and Sanitation would like to urge communities, businesses and industry to head this call and use water sparingly at all times and adhere to water restrictions." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 