 Mthatha - Non-ferrous metals crime combating operations were held in Mthatha and surrounding areas between 22 July 2019 until 25 July. The operations focused on Second Hand Dealers, Scrap Metal dealers, cellphone shops, the proliferation of stolen vehicles and yielded good results. "More than 50 businesses were visited and 14 fines amounting to R30 000.00 were issued for Contravention of Second hand Good Act, Act 06 of 2009, Sect 2 (1) for failing to register as a dealer and one fine to the value of R1 000.00 for failing to display a certificate on business premises," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "Various cellphone dealer shops were also visited and 368 rica’d sim-cards were confiscated to the value of R1 025. 00. "The Vehicle Crime Investigation Unit (VCIU) members were also kept busy during the operation and stopped and inspected a total of 135 vehicles – 56 in Qumbu, 56 in Coffee Bay and 23 in Mthatha. "Two vehicles were positively identified as stolen, which led to the arrest of two suspects, aged 33 and 35. Both vehicles were seized and one of them, a black Opel Corsa was reported to have been stolen at Cofimvaba." Both suspects have appeared in the Mthatha Magistrates Court on charges of possession of stolen vehicles. “The high incidents of theft and damage of non-ferrous metals necessitated the adoption of an integrated multi-disciplinary approach, involving all stakeholders in a collaborative manner to address these incidents as they pose a major threat and directly impacts on the ability of Government and parastatals to deliver on their mandates," said Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga. "These operations will be held monthly in every part of the province and we are confident that soon we will see a downward trend in the theft and damage of non-ferrous metals in the province." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 