 Uitenhage - A wide selection of premium quality vehicles, servicing, parts and excellent, friendly staff, who always go the extra mile (excuse the pun) to ensure their customers have an exceptional experience. That’s what you can expect from any employee at the Kelston Motor Group. As part of the Kelston Motor Group, a family owned business which is currently in its 19th year in the motor retail and service industry with a large footprint throughout the Eastern Cape, we have the expertise to always ask the question: Are we doing it the Kelston Way - Quality vehicles, Quality Service and are we adding value to you the customer? As part of the Kelston Motor Group, the Hyundai Uitenhage branch recently celebrated their 1st birthday! RNEWS spoke to Group Used Car Manager for the Kelston Motor Group, Eugene Gerber, who is at the helm of Hyundai Uitenhage and talked about the success of this branch and why motorists put so much faith and trust into the brand. The Hyundai Uitenhage branch is still in its early stages, having celebrated its first birthday in March this year. The Kelston Motor Group purchased the Hyundai Port Elizabeth branch two years ago, which prompted them to open their branch in Uitenhage in 2018. The Hyundai branch was previously known as Market Square Cars, but is now known as Hyundai Uitenhage. A: They have niche vehicles, good value for money, offering fantastic deals every month on the Hyundai vehicles, and better models of cars are being manufactured on an ongoing basis. Upgrades and new models always manufactured with you as the customer in their minds. The new Santa Fe and the new Creta – both SUV, catering for two separate markets, have been launched early 2019. Another SUV, the new Hyundai Tuscon, has also been launched recently and can now be seen & bought from our floor. Three months ago, in the passenger model segment, we have launched the new i20 as well and its been performing well. A: It has been performing very well, all the thanks to our loyal customers and new customers that put the trust in our vehicles and service. We are averaging between 20 - 25 units a month from the Hyundai Uitenhage branch, which is very good. People are following the name of Hyundai; we have customers coming all the way from Jeffrey’s Bay, Humansdorp, Queenstown and such. The Hyundai Uitenhage branch provides excellent service, great products and value for money on our cars. The staff are friendly and always willing to help our customers. We currently have a R17 500 trade assist offer for the H100 Hyundai Bakkies that have been going on for the past four or five months. We also have a R20 000 assistance offer on the Hyundai Tuscon. Terms and conditions apply. Also remember we have our own Service & Parts centre here too. We are currently offering 10% on all out of warranty vehicles on parts & labour. New deals come every month at the Hyundai Uitenhage branch so make sure you keep up to date by checking them out on our website, click here or on our social media pages . Visit these pages timeously to not miss out on our great offerings. Booking a test drive with Hyundai Uitenhage is simple and easy. Simply click here and fill out the form and they will get back to you as soon as possible. Or visit our showroom. Don’t let our location, Uitenhage, put your off. Want to buy a car? We can also bring the car to You – New or Pre-Owned, just another way we try to make your Hyundai experience with us easier. We accept Trade-Ins, Offer In-house Finance & Warranties & Offer a wide range of new and pre-owned vehicles. Give us a call or browse our website hyundai-uitenhage.co.za or 0414502420 Put us to the test. Looking forward to meeting you. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 