 Port Elizabeth - For companies involved in the mining, construction and manufacturing industries, which are facing a rapidly-changing landscape, skills training providers like the Port Elizabeth-based online Veasey's Engineering College are a vital companion. Engineering, as we know it, actually emerged in the 1500’s, although man had been learning to adapt and exploit his environment for millennia before that. Fast-forward to the 21st Century, the knowledge, tools and techniques have changed - and continue to change at a blazing pace that many textbooks now need constant revision. In fact, globally, engineering companies now depend on vocational skills training providers like Veasey’s to reboot their staff to ensure they stay relevant in an ever-changing environment. The college, while evolving itself, has endeavoured to lead in re-skilling and upskilling veteran and junior engineers across South Africa in terms of legal appointments, as required by health and safety legislation. “Veasey's Engineering College was established by John Herbert Veasey in 1924 as a correspondence learning institution to prepare young engineers for the Government Certificate of Competency for Engineers examinations, for either Mines or Factories,” described Greg Clack, owner of Veasey's Engineering College. “Mr Veasey was one of the engineers involved in the building of the original Jan Smuts Airport (now OR Tambo International Airport).” He said that since those early days, the College has grown vastly. “Over the years, the college has skilled many engineers and currently, we have 148 candidates enrolled with us for both factory and mine related engineering courses. This is out of an evolving market of roughly 600 nationally.” Veasey's offers study packages for self-directed study towards the two engineer's Certificate of Competency examinations – namely Plant Engineering & Legal Knowledge. “Our packages are designed for either factory or mine engineers.” Clack said that Veasey's Engineering College differs from most engineering colleges in South Africa. “Veasey's is a correspondence college which makes access that much easier and flexible for busy engineers. Our material is extremely comprehensive and doesn't require hours of classroom attendance and for individuals to be off work, or out of town,” he explained. “Our focus is on preparing qualified engineers, technicians and artisans to write their Engineer's Certificate of Competency examinations. Our material covers all the necessary requirements for either factories or mines.” Clack said that Veasey's Engineering College is an independent institution but does work closely with the Institution of Certificated Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, South Africa as well as the Department of Labour. “We see ourselves as Service Providers to these organisations.” He said in an ever-changing industry, it is it important for factories and mines to constantly skill their technical staff. “It is crucial for a company, be it in the factory or mining industries, to comply with the legal requirement of appointing a competent person, and a certificated engineer fulfils this requirement,” Clack said. Understanding how teaching and learning has also evolved, Veasey's has crafted its courses to meet the demands of those that they are meant to benefit. In fact, Clack was enrolled with Veasey’s Engineering College as a candidate in the mid 90’s, passed his GCC in 1997, helped the previous principal develop the Law package and has been involved in the College in one way, or another, since then. It's not so easy for many after spending three to five years at university, a university of technology or a TVET, another seven to 10 years working and now with a family to fend for - to just drop everything and go back to studying. Similarly, many companies nowadays cannot afford having their workforce away for long periods of time. “As mentioned, the correspondence element sets us apart as well as the length of time that we have been collating important information and preparing students for their exams,” Clack described. “We also offer individual support with each package [which can also be found on their online store]. This support is given via email, phone or WhatsApp by a Professional Certificated Engineer, who has been very involved with the Certificate of Competency for more than twenty years.” He said the college’s commitment to its students is: “Our candidates enjoy an advantage in the job market. For example, the Engineer's Certificate of Competence, for which we offer this study partnership, is a sought-after permit to operate and as such is motivational and developmental for young engineers in training, or junior engineers, who wish to progress in the company,” Clack added. He said that upon enrolling, candidates receive material that covers theory, as well as examination questions and suggested answers and self-tests, “giving students the ability to assess their own understanding”. “Our primary focus is correspondence learning. Our material is couriered anywhere in South Africa, and the cost is included in the price of the study package,” Clack said. “With the nationwide spread of candidates, their many unique time targets and commitments, we have decided that this is the most practicable way to be of service. For companies, or individual engineers, wanting to find out more about Veasey's Engineering College and their course offerings, visit www.veaseys.co.za or call 076 921 7110 today. You can use their easy-to-use quote request/enrolment tool here. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 