 Port Elizabeth - Two rape suspects will forever be grateful to Motherwell police, who rescued them from the clutches of an angry mob that had apprehended them for allegedly raping a 10-year-old girl in Ikamvelihle, Port Elizabeth. According to police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, the incident allegedly happened after the duo attacked the girl, who was walking home from school at around 15:30 on Thursday. "It is alledged that the two suspects forced the girl into their shack in Nomakanjane, Ikamvelihle, where she was then raped by them," he said. "At about 18:00, the two suspects let the girl go free and fled from their shack. "By 19:00, a group of about 200 angry residents mobilised and started searching for the two suspects. "They set the suspects' shack alight and it was totally destroyed. The SAPS were alerted of the rape and the resulting search by the community and also joined in the search." Capt Beetge said that it was a race as police officers hoped to find the two males before the community did. Their search resulted in them finding the first suspect, a 21-year-old. "He was found hiding and unharmed in Koliti street at about 23:45," Capt Beetge said. "By 00:30, police also found the badly second suspect, a 27-year-old, who had been badly assaulted by residents at the Motherwell graveyard." Captain Beetge said that the community were moments away from killing him and setting his body alight. However, residents fled the scene when they saw the approaching lights of the police. "The alleged rape case is being investigated by the Motherwell Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) unit. "The 21-year-old suspect was arrested and detained for the rape, while the second suspect is being treated for the serious wounds he sustained in the attack," Capt Beetge added. "The name of hospital witheld for security reasons. He will be formally arrested once he is in a condition to be detained and taken to court." Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, stressed that residents must report cases to the SAPS instead of taking the law into their own hands. "The shack of the two rape suspects - where the alledged rape took place, was an official crime scene. When vigilante persons destroyed it by burning it down, vital evidence that could link the suspects with the rape was destroyed in the process," he added. "The SAPS will investigate and pursue this matter with urgency and perpetrators are promised to face serious criminal charges for interfering with police crime scenes." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 