 The Patriotic Alliance's (PA) Marlon Daniels says a second motion of no confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, is in the works. He promised he will not rest until Bobani has been ousted and hopes to see smaller parties running the Bay. The Patriotic Alliance's (PA) sole Councillor in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Marlon Daniels, who brought a motion of no confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, says he is not done yet. Bobani on Thursday survived the motion that was brought by Daniels and supported by the African Christian Democratic Party's (ACDP) Lance Grootboom. The motion was summarily thrown out following a day of drama, delays and disruptions from Councillors. Still, Daniels told RNEWS that he will not rest until Bobani is removed from being Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor "because he is not fit for the role". Daniels accused Bobani taking instructions on how to run the Metro from the African National Congress' (ANC) Andile Lungisa. “Bobani takes instructions from a single person in the Mayoral Committee,” said Daniels. “He deals with Lungisa, he listens to him only and nobody else.” After taking over as Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Bobani announced an ANC-dominated Mayoral Committee as his own party, the United Democratic Movement (UDM) does not have the numbers to run the Metro alone. Daniels and Bobani have always had an on-and-off relationship during their time in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council. It was Daniels, who in August 2017 tabled a motion of no confidence against Bobani, leading to Bobani's ouster as the Metro's Deputy Mayor. The PA was later admitted into the then DA-led coalition, which they then left claiming that they had been promised the Deputy Mayor's post, which failed to materialise. Later that year, Daniels and Bobani announced that they had decided to let bygones be bygones in a bid to oust then Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip.  In August 2018, the PA joined other parties in another attempt the ouster of the then DA-led coalition. It dumped the opposition parties at the last minute after failing to resolve differences with the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). Daniels was later ousted from his Portfolio position when the DA-led coalition was kicked out of office during the dramatic events of the 27th of August. His party also announced that it had decided to no longer support the DA’s legal challenge to Bobani’s new administration saying he deserved a chance to show that black people can govern. Daniels, however, said that he was not surprised that Thursday's motion of no confidence failed as he knew that the motion would not succeed. “I already submitted on the 26th of February, my second motion of exigency, as I submitted my motion for Thursday,” he said. “So, next month, I will still come back and table another one. “I’m building up for after the elections in May." The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), who are part of the ruling coalition in the Bay, where accused of protecting Bobani and the ANC. Daniels said he knew that the EFF would not support him in Thursday's motion. “But I know they will support me in chucking Bobani out, after the upcoming elections," he added. “This is just a temporary arrangement, I will make sure that he goes." After he nearly came to blows with Democratic Alliance (DA) Councillor, Gustav Rautenbach, during a heated exchange in the Council Chambers, Daniels is not looking to the DA for support for his next motion. He said that he will end the dominance of both the ANC and the DA in Nelson Mandela Bay politics, when he brings Bobani down. “Minority parties will be in charge of this municipality – I don’t know, who will be the next Mayor, but it will definitely not be someone from those two parties, it will not be Trollip - neither will it be Bobani." Without the backing of neither the ANC nor the DA, who have a greater share of the seats in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council, it remains anyone's guess how Daniels will be able to oust Bobani. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 