 Port Elizabeth - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) confirmed that it indeed had not formally communicated with State Witness, Cheryl Zondi, about the decision of Port Elizabeth High Court Judge, Mandela Makaula, to step down from the ongoing trial of controversial Nigerian Pastor, Tim Omotoso. This followed after Zondi held a press conference in Johannesburg on Tuesday morning to voice out her disappointments with the State and the NPA after she only heard of Judge Makaula’s recusal from the trial through the media. She was yet to hear formally the steps to follow after the development. Zondi still said that she is prepared to again testify against Omotoso and his co-accused under new Judge, Selby Mbenenge. Omotoso and his co-accused, Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho, face a total of 97 charges related to human trafficking and sexual assault - 63 of which are the main charges and 34 are listed as alternative charges. Last year, Zondi detailed how she joined the church and was later sexually abused by Omotoso at his Durban home. She also linked one of Omotoso's co-accused, Lusanda Solani, to the abuses. Omotoso and his co-accused, Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho, face a total of 97 charges related to human trafficking and sexual assault - 63 of which are the main charges and 34 are listed as alternative charges. Still, the accused refused to plead to all the charges against them. Zondi said that the NPA hasn’t officially informed her about the recusal of Judge Mandela Makaula and how the recusal is going to affect her. NPA spokesperson in the Eastern Cape, Tsepo Ndwalaza told RNEWS that there are procedures processes that happen behind the scenes, which are not as simple as Zondi believes, which have to happen before witnesses are contacted. “The Judge has not been nominated - we have not yet officially received communication that a certain judge is going to re-start the case. “We cannot just attend to Cheryl alone in this matter; there are other victims that need to be informed also,” Ndwalaza said. “We are preparing these processes and of cause, in due course, when the time is right, Cheryl and all the victims will be informed of this situation. “We are not going to do that to only her, we will include everybody.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 