 Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, opened the House of Traditional Leaders Eastern Cape in Bhisho for the last time as Premier of the Eastern Cape. Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, on Thursday officially opened the Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders for the year 2019. This was his last opening of the House of Traditional Leaders as Premier of the Eastern Cape as the term of the fifth administration winds down. The House of Traditional Leaders was established among other things to represent traditional leadership and their communities; advance the aspirations of the traditional leadership and their communities; participate in matters that have to do with custom, traditions and matters of common interest and influence government legislative processes. In his speech, Masualle emphasized on the importance of revitalization of small towns. He said that small towns have a potential towards local economic development space, which "will be developed to ensure that self sustained rural communities with a focus on integrated planning as well as participation and invite private private partners in securing the development of the small business sector in the rural communities." Premier Masualle also emphasized the importance of the participation of traditional leaders in local governance. He said that the traditional leader's importance is a non-negotiable necessity so as to avoid a situation where government and communities talk past one another. "Let us become the traditional leadership that is driving our youth towards improving and developing themselves as human beings," the Premier described. "We must be aware of our state of Municipalities in support towards a clean government because it is at this level that our communities receive their basic services in issues that involve the economy and and towards improving the development." He then thanked the institution for the contribution it has made in the traditional and Khoi San Bill. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here.    