 Port Elizabeth - The Regional Executive Committee (REC) of the African National Congress Youth Leaguein the Nelson Mandela Bay has expressed concern about what it said was escalating level of gun-related violence in the Bay. The REC held a meeting on Thursday at the ANC Regional Office at the Florence Matomela House, Port Elizabeth. In its post-meeting statement on Monday, the ANCYL REC said that delegates discussed many issues of concern affecting residents of the Nelson Mandela Bay. “Many people in the Metro have fallen victim to gun violence since the beginning of the year and this is a major concern for the ANCYL because there are instances where young innocent children and youth were affected and killed by stray bullets,” said spokesperson, Siviwe Ngaba. He said that the REC noted that young people are both the victims of this violence and are also the perpetrators in many instances. The REC called for all residents, young and old, to join hands in fighting this new challenge. “It is however important that the youth take the lead in fighting for their own liberation and safety. “The REC, therefore, holds a view that it is necessary to develop a programme that involves political education, consciousness-raising and awareness for members of our communities and also to establish platforms and or spaces where the perpetrators can be brought to book," Ngaba described. “This would be complementary to the conscientising of young people around the effects of gun violence and or any other form of violence in our communities and thus develop them as allies in the fight against violence in our communities." The REC further called on the SAPS and the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro police to intervene in curbing crime in the Metro particularly gun-related violence. “We call on SAPS and the municipal executive of the metro to strengthen the work of both the South African Police Services and the Metro police in order to ensure that our streets are cleaned off of any perpetrators of crime," Ngaba said. “We also call on both of these institutions to work together and establish a coherent strategy to combat crime in our communities. We do all this as part of our work to ensure that we restore law and order in our region." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 