 Eastern Cape Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA) MEC, Fikile Xasa, on Tuesday said that over a million households in the province - counting from 2014 to 2018, now have access to water and sanitation, which is an increase of 10%. Xasa said that while hosting an end of term stakeholder engagement session on Tuesday morning at Pine Lodge. The session was meant to share highlights and set-backs faced by his department as the end of the political term of the current Eastern Cape Provincial administration fast-approaches. MEC Xasa said the session is in line with Pillar 1 of the Back to Basics programme, which encourages the government to Put People and their Concerns First. He added that the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa all spheres of government and all organs of state to “secure the wellbeing of the people of the Republic.” “Through this session we seek to provide effective, transparent, accountable and coherent government to our stakeholders. This we do so as to co-operate with one another in mutual trust and good faith by fostering friendly relations, assisting and supporting one another, informing and consulting one another on matters of common interest,” said MEC Xasa. Successful service delivery across the Eastern Cape The number of households with access to water has increased from 1,340,230 households which translates to 79% in 2014 to 1,505,816 (89%) in 2018, while the total households with access to sanitation increased from 1,112,096 (66%) in 2014 to 1,353,251 (80%) in 2018.  Between 2014 and 2018, 187,114 households were connected to the grid and to date the cumulative number of households that have access to electricity is 1,720,945 which translate to 97% of the total households in the Province.  Water infrastructure MEC Xasa said that the Back to Basics programme has supported the provision of water to the Chris Hani District Municipality to the Molteno Water Treatment Plant, Sada/Hewu Waste Water Treatment Plant including upgrading the Engcobo Water Reticulation Projects. MEC Xasa added that the three projects benefited communities with clean potable water. Electrification projects He said that electricity was supplied to 4 237 households in seven municipalities namely KSD, Elundini, Ntabankulu, Mbizana, Matatiele, Intsika Yethu, and Umzimvubu. “This intervention has improved the lives of the affected communities as a number of people received skills development and employment during the implementation while lighting and cooking is also made easy with electricity,” Xasa said. He, however, also noted that more still needs to be done to support, educate and where needed, enforce implementation of local government’s mandate for delivery.  