 Port Elizabeth - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Nelson Mandela Bay believes that the current load sheddingis sabotage by those against Cyril Ramaphosa's much-lauded 'new dawn'. This comes from the SACP in the Bay recently held a special District meeting to discuss issues in preparation for the upcoming national and provincial elections in May. Lazola Pukwana, SACP District Spokesperson, said: “We reiterate our earliest view that Eskom’s management implementing rolling blackouts is very suspicious and smells of economic sabotage by those, who are against the new dawn. “We do not think it is by coincidence that the power utility is experiencing this challenge weeks before the elections." Pukwana said that the SACP has called on the African National Congress (ANC) to fix the problem to avoid economic stagnation. “The ANC government must do everything in its power to address this matter and avert the possible economic decline," he described. “The District Executive Committee issued a statement last year to warn the ANC about its decision to disband the [ANC Nelson Mandela Bay Regional Executive Committee] and the implications going forward. “Despite the noticeable weaknesses in that leadership, the disbandment was always going to be disastrous," said Pukwana. “The task team that was appointed has not shown interest in uniting this region; instead, we are seeing more divisions. “It is alleged that the task team has threatened our deployees to fundraise five million Rand or vacate their positions." He said that the ANC Nelson Mandela Bay Task Team should focus on building local structures. “We are warning the task team to stay away from local government issues and rather focus on building the branches of the ANC in the region," Pukwana said. "We call on the Provincial office of the ANC to investigate these allegations. Our people want to see a united ANC, we urge the task team to focus on the renewal and unity of the movement.” The SACP in the Bay said that it acknowledges the current ANC-led coalition that is running the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality for improved service delivery. “We have seen notable improvements in service delivery in the working-class areas since the new coalitions. “The leadership has noted the pro-poor budget that was adopted by the council and encourage the coalition to speed up the insourcing of all workers that were not directly employed by the municipality," Pukwana said. “We urge all the stakeholders to guard against all elements, who want to destabilise the local government. We will continue to monitor the progress of this local government and hold all our deployees accountable." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 