 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the Eastern Cape on Friday called on the Eastern Cape Department of Education and the Matatiele Municipality to take responsibility for the deaths of children, who drowned crossing the Freyistata River on their way home after school on Thursday. On Thursday night, Eastern Cape police said that they were continuing the searching two bodies after six children, aged between 6 and 8 years old, were reportedly swept away whilst crossing the Freyistata River on their way home after school. "Search and Rescue K9 members from Mthatha and Elliot attended to the scene while other roleplayers like Mt Fletcher SAPS, LCRC, EMS and Forensic Pathology also responded to the scene," described police spokesperson, Capt Khaya Tonjeni. "Four of the deceased were recovered while extra Search and Rescue K9 personnel arrived on scene to beef up the rescue mission. "Two victims have not yet been found but the search was called off for safety reasons and considerations." The following drowning victims were recovered: The following are still missing: "All the children were from the same locality," he said. "A seasoned and experienced team of search and rescue members assisted today in searching a large part of the Moyane River and smaller river for the two children without success." "The family and whole community as well as local SAPS members also assisted in a full scale search." The search will continued on Friday morning early with the assistance of the local SAPS of Mount Fletcher and experience search and rescue members in the province. On Friday, EFF Eastern Cape MP, Yoliswa Yako, expressed the party's disappointment that the tragedy could happen in the first place. “We demand to know why in 2019, young children are not able to go to schools closer home. “We demand to know why, in 2019, there is no adequate infrastructure to accommodate for transportation of young children to and from their school,” Yako said. She asked; "How long has the community of Matatiele called for a bridge to be built over the river? Their cries have fallen on deaf ears. “Just the other day, we listened the MEC of Finance as he meandered on, about the budget allocation. “That in 2019, we are talking of allocation funds to infrastructure and eradicating pit toilets in schools when our children should have been talking of the fourth industrial revolution, is an unexplainable failure of the ANC government. That we should have funds allocated to education and all it encompassed including the safety of young children, being looted is unacceptable! “We demand that the municipality account for where the budget for the river has gone to, and why our people have been lied to for this long. “We wish to pay our deepest condolences to the families of the departed little ones. May their souls rest in peace." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here.  