 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, did not mince his words on hearing that former Mayor, Athol Trollip, had laid criminal charges against him for alleged fraud and corruption in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS). Trollip on Wednesday laid criminal charges against Bobani and African National Congress (ANC) Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) Member, Zandisile Qupe, at the Humewood Police Station. In his affidavit, Trollipsaid: "It has now come to my attention through various media reports that the current Executive Mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay, Cllr Mongameli Bobani, has been implicated in alleged fraud and/or corruption within the IPTS project as he allegedly solicited and/or received funding and/or unlawfully benefitted from public funds. "Cllr Bobani has recently been responsible for initiating disciplinary action against City Manager, Johann Mettler. Said disciplinary action has seen Mettler being placed on cautionary suspension as from September 2018 already. "It is my believe (sic) that this move by Cllr Bobani was motivated by the fact that Mettler was the driving force behind the investigation into the alleged corruption and/or fraud within the IPTS project in Nelson Mandela Bay." Bobani once served as Trollip's Deputy Executive Mayor until the two men had a nasty fall out. After many tries, Bobani finally managed to unsit his former boss as the new Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality executive Mayor last year. He subsequently appointed an ANC-dominated Mayoral Committee - which the Democratic Alliance has consistently accused of mismanaging the Metro. "Trollip sucked lies from his mother's breast, he lies from his teeth straight through his bones," Bobani hit back. Bobani said that he has nothing new to say about Trollip, but what he has been telling everyone that "Trollip is a liar". "I got nothing to say about him because he goes around spreading and believing lies that he sees in newspapers. "Look at him now, lying to the South African Police Service because lying is in his blood," he added. Bobani said that he "felt pity" for Trollip who "has nothing better to do with his time, but to go around spreading lies." "He is a liar that is hungry and doesn't have anything better to say or do with his time. "We are busy delivering services to the people of Nelson Mandela Bay and we don't have time to entertain his lies. "He learnt lying from his great grand parents, who were busy saying that Nelson Mandela is a terrorist, but now they are praising him and calling him a hero. "On the 21st of March (Human Rights Day), we will be remembering all the fallen heroes that were killed by the great grand parents of Trollip at Uitenhage, who were also liars. The same liars Trollip learnt from." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 