 Two more illegal firearms were taken off the streets and a 39-year-old female suspect arrested for illegal possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Police in Motherwell, Port Elizabeth, recovered a total of seven illegal firearms over the past weekend and also arrested seven suspects for being in possession of unlicensed firearms. "Illegally owned unlicensed firearms will remain the focus of SAPS in the Motherwell Cluster," said the Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie. This is after four more people lost their lives over the weekend in firearms-related murders. In the first incident, at 11:15, the SAPS Flying Squad members pulled off a suspicious Mazda 323 in Vinqi street, Zwide. "After a search of the four occupants and the vehicle, two firearms were discovered in the vehicle. A 9mm pistol with a magazine and five rounds ammunition, as well as a .38 revolver with six rounds ammunition were confiscated and four suspects arrested for the illegal possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition," said police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "The serial numbers of both fire arms were removed. The suspects are aged between 21 and 24." During the funerals on Sunday of two 'Gintsa' (robbers/thugs), shots were fired at 12:30 amongst the crowds attending the funerals. "Police that were carefully monitoring the funeral quickly closed in and discovered more than 40 spent cartridges in Chalumna Street, NU5, Motherwell," said Capt Beetge. "The shooter attempted to flee from police members, but were cornered in a yard and forced to drop the 9mm pistol in his possession. "The 22-year-old suspect was then arrested for the negligent discharging of firearm in residential area as well as the illegal possession of an unlicensed fire arm." He added that follow ups led police to a house in Ahmed street, NU10, Motherwell, where another 9mm pistol and 11 rounds ammunition (that was alledgedly used in the funeral shootings) were confiscated. "No arrest was made, but forensic analysis will be conducted on it." Capt Beetge said that later at about 19:30 Kwazakele police followed up information about a firearm being kept at a shop in Soweto-on-Sea. "When police arrived at the shop in Shilowa street, a 24-year-old shop assistant pulled a loaded .38 revolver from his jacket. The SAPS members forced him to drop the weapon and was arrested," he described. "The revolver was loaded with six rounds of ammunition and was tested and linked to a Port Alfred case where it was reported stolen during October 2018." He was arrested for illegal possession of an unlicensed fire arm and ammunition. The six suspects would appear before the New Brighton and Motherwell Magistrates Courts on Monday to face the charges against them. General Rabie applauded these arrests and urged that "Our communities must come forward with information on locations where these illegal fire arms are being kept in order for SAPS to remove it from our streets and prevent crimes where these fire arms are being used to commit murders and armed robberies." A tip off by a Motherwell home owner saw police taking an illegal firearm from the hands of criminals. It is alleged that a home ownerfound a firearm wrapped in a plastic bag in his outside washing machine and alerted the police on Sunday evening. When the police arrived at the house at Echola street, NU5, they found the 9mm pistol, a magazine and seven rounds of ammunition. They confiscated the items and sent them for ballistic and forensic analysis. Captain Beetge said that the firearm was found with the serial number removed. He added that another house in Tsotsobe street, New Brighton, was searched by SAPS after information was received of an illegal firearm being kept there. This occurred around 03:00 early on Monday morning. "A .38 calible revolver with two rounds ammunition was discovered in a plastic bag inside a locked outside room. "In the bag two rounds of 9mm and a further 17 rounds of .22 calibre ammunition were found." Captain Beetge said that this firearm was also found with the serial number removed and will be sent for ballistic and forensic analysis. The 39-year-old woman, who is the home owner, was arrested for the illegal possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. She will be appearing before the New Brighton Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 