 The Nelson Mandela University says that a meeting was held between management and student representatives on Thursday afternoon following a South African African Students Congress (SASCO) led protest that led to the university cancelling classes on Thursday. Nelson Mandela University spokesperson, Zandile Mbabela, said that the meeting dealt with a series of issues as raised by the students, many of which had been dealt with through the various task teams and working groups. "The students aired their frustrations at the perceived slow pace of implementing the resolutions to the issues raised." Mbabela said the meeting decided to immediate establish a Clearing House, which will comprise the Student Representative Council, Finance Department, Student Affairs, Academic Administration and Student Counselling. The Clearing House will deal with students’ issues on an individual case basis, which include: She added that students may continue to refer their specific issues to Student Accounts and Financial Aid. "Should these not be adequately resolves, students can bring these to the attention of the Clearing House," Mbabela explained. "Two matters pertaining to academic programmes were raised and considered at the meeting." The first had to do with 2018 Higher Certificate students who still have a few modules to complete and don’t qualify for NSFAS funding as a result. These students may appeal to their respective faculties for reconsideration and possible concurrent registration for diploma studies. The second had to do with students who had not met the pass requirements for their prerequisite modules, which impacts on what they are able to register for this year. This may also have implications for obtaining NSFAS funding. These students may also appeal to their respective faculties for reconsideration. "In light of the good engagement held with students, we are of the view that we have covered sufficient grounds to have normal university operations resume on Friday," Mbabela said. "Tests and assignments that were affected by the disruptions to the academic activities this week – from Wednesday afternoon to Saturday – will be rescheduled. Students should consult their respective lecturers for these arrangements." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 