 Port Elizabeth - Port Elizabeth detectives wasted no time in curtailing the freedom of criminals committing crimes in their policing precinct this past weekend. "During this weekend, four suspects were arrested on separate charges of house robberies and attempted murder, said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "It is alleged that on Sunday morning, at about 03:00, a 24-year-old complainant was asleep in her house in Virgo Street in Helenvale with her husband and mother when she heard noises in the room. "Three males, of which one is known to her, threatened the couple with a firearm and a knife. They ransacked the house and took two pairs of takkies, a top, a leather jacket and a Samsung phone before fleeing." Col Naidu said that the Anti-Gang Unit Tracking Team immediately started the search for the suspect and at about 08:15, he was spotted standing at a shop in Virgo Street. "When he saw the police, he started to run but was overpowered and arrested. The 19-year-old gang affiliate was detained on a charge of house robbery." He is expected in the Gelvandale Magistrates Court on Monday. Meanwhile, a 23-year-old suspect was also arrested on Sunday morning, at 11:15, by the Tracking Team for an alleged house robbery, which occurred in August 2019. "It is alleged that the complainant (38) was first robbed in Hickory Street by a known person, who took his cash. The suspect returned to his house in Hickory Street in Bethelsdorp later that same evening with another male and further robbed him of more cash," Col Naidu said. "The complainant went several times with police looking for the suspect and on Sunday, the suspect was arrested in Bethesldorp." He will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday. "A 20-year-old attempted murder suspect was also nabbed by Anti-Gang Unit Tracking Team members at about 12:15 on Sunday at a house in Hibiscus Street in Ext 31 in Bethelsdorp," Col Naidu said. "The team followed up on information and the suspect was arrested. It is alleged that on 7 February 2019, at about 19:15, the 36-year-old complainant was sleeping when two shots were fired at his house in Baleria Close in Ext 31. "The complainant saw two males running away. No one was injured. She said that the suspect will appear in court on Monday. Meanwhile, Walmer detectives arrested an 18-year-old youth for attempted murder, which allegedly took place on Friday evening, in Area Q10 in Walmer Location. According to police information, at about 21:15, three males were busy smoking an Oka pipe when three other males barged into the house. "The males demanded drugs and when the victims replied that they didn’t have any, one of the suspect’s shot an 18-year-old victim in his foot. The suspects took the Oka pipe and left." The suspect was arrested about two hours after the incident. "He was found in his shack in Area Q and will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 