 East London - The current drought in Adelaide and its surrounds is reportedly the worst in 50 years. Its primary servicing dam is parched, cracked and dry. Director of Alderson Ambulance, Barry Brown, together with his wife Rinda, have partnered with Beaconhurst Primary and High Schools in what has turned out to be a massive East London effort to collect over 6 000 litres of water in aide of drought-stricken Adelaide. “We are completely overcome by the compassion of our community and how it’s just ‘shown up’ to help its sister community in Adelaide”, comments Rinda. Brown reported that donations came in from almost every conceivable source. “Farmers with borehole water, households with rainwater tanks, businesses, organisations that made cash donations, it has been truly epic” says Barry. “We must pay huge honour and thanks to the learners of Beaconhurst Primary and High Schools under the leadership of Mr. Norman and Mr. Cloete for their massive efforts resulting in a donation of over 2000 litres of water from them alone. We must also thank the Beaconhurst High School Land Services learners led by Mr. Galanos, for their generous donation of R4000 which enabled us to bottle the water efficiently.” In addition to these generous acts, the Beacon Bay Lions donated R2000 cash to the effort which allowed for the purchase of water in Bedford. Regent Hotel gave 300 litres, Gozone Water 200 litres, Edna and Shorty Bower 1000 litres, Crewe Primary 300 litres, and RV Smith and Getaway Trailers loaned trailers that helped make the water run possible. “We also acknowledge the help of our many water carriers who helped bottle and pack water for the trip, as well as the parents, teachers and learners of Executots Preschool, Mrs. Tracy Kallaway’s Grade 1 class from George Randell Primary School and Mrs. Robin Heaton’s Grade 2 class from Hudson Primary School”, Rinda added. The first “Alderson Adelaide Water Run” took place on Thursday 5 September. “We are calling for East Londoners to continue digging deep and doing whatever they can to alleviate the massive water crisis that is affecting the beautiful Adelaide community” urged Rinda. Barry confirmed that “Alderson Ambulance, Beaconhurst Primary and High Schools and Gonubie Primary School will continue receiving water drop-offs and welcome any cash donations that will enable the continuance of the project to save lives in Adelaide”. Image: Rector of Alderson Ambulance, Barry Brown, together with his wife Rinda, have partnered with Beaconhurst Primary and High Schools to collect over 6000 litres of water in aide of drought-stricken Adelaide. At the hand-over are David Norman, Fleet and Facilities Manager of Alderson Ambulance with Beaconhurst School's students and the School's Land Service Head Mr Galanos, Deputy Principal Mr Cloete and Principal Mr Norman. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 