 Update: Please note that the provincial government is no longer organizing the joint memorial service as per the earlier statement communicated to you earlier in the day. Bhisho - The Eastern Cape Provincial Government says it will hold a joint memorial service for Uyinene Mrhwetyana and Leighandre 'Baby Lee' Jegels who were both murdered in the past week by men. "The purpose of the memorial service is to coordinate efforts by the provincial government, civil society and the public to support families whose children were violently killed by men in the province and outside the province," said Premier of the Eastern Cape Province, Lubabalo Mabuyane. "While the memorial service will be for the two young women brutally killed by men, the focus is to remember all women killed by men in this province and in the country with the intention of calling on all men to stop this crime. "This memorial service will be used to call on all men to stand up and fight any form of gender based violence and femicide in the province by protecting women and children from rape, abuse and murder by men." Mabuyane said that the only solution to ending gender based violence and femicide is for men that are not abusing women and children to stand up and fight this criminality. "Fighting gender based violence and femicide means changing our mindset as men about women, influencing each other to respect women and to protect women and children from any harm," the Premier added. "Of critical importance is for each man to report all incidents of ill treatment of women and abuse of any kind to law enforcement agencies so that those perpetuating abuse against women and children are arrested and removed from society. "I have tasked MECs Weziwe Tikana, Siphokazi Mani-Lusithi and Fezeka Bayeni to represent the provincial government in the coordination of the memorial service and programs to fight gender based violence and femicide in our province." Details of the memorial service are as follows: Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 