 Port Elizabeth - In an open letter to Nelson Mandela Mandela Bay Municipality, Mongameli Bobani, and his Mayoral Committee, the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber on Thursday said that local business is dissatisfied with the state of things in the Metro. Among the concerns raised by the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber is the failure by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality to appoint a permanant Chief Financial Officer among other vacancies for Executive Directors of Departments. In August, the Chamber again highlighted its concerns at the state of the Metro. Read part of the letter below: -------------------------------------------------------------- Dear Executive Mayor and Mayoral Committee As the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber, we view the matter that we have raised with you and your Mayoral Committee as requiring urgent intervention, so as to protect the best interests of Nelson Mandela Bay. Your reply indicates to us that the matter has not been afforded the seriousness it deserves and we stand firm in our resolution that this issue must be discussed with the full Mayoral Committee. As such, we are attaching the letter that we wanted to discuss with you and your Mayoral Committee in person, summarised below: “As organised business, we wish to voice our dissatisfaction with the current dysfunctional state of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. We are deeply concerned about the way the environment has deteriorated, making it very difficult for businesses to be sustainable and competitive, and thus able to contribute towards the economic wellbeing of the City.  In fact, the situation should be considered dire with hundreds of jobs currently being shed, while an estimated one in three people are unemployed. It is the duty of the Municipality to provide basic services to create an enabling environment in which business can operate and grow, ultimately, for the benefit of all citizens. However, when the Municipality is unable to fulfill its executive obligations in terms of the Constitution or legislation due to inefficiencies at local government level, it is stifling the economic growth so desperately needed as businesses are prevented from conducting their normal day to day operations. Under the circumstances the NMBBC is left with no option but to request publicly for an urgent written undertaking from the municipal council that it will implement immediate, urgent and visible interventions in the following areas: This action has become necessary, due to the very serious nature of the issues.  This represent business across Nelson Mandela Bay, as well as our Civil Society partners. This is an open letter and will be distributed to our key stakeholders and partners.  Please note that this represents the unanimous views of the entire Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber Board. We remain willing and open to meet with the Executive Mayor and the entire Mayoral Committee at their earliest convenience. Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber Board ---------------------------------------  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 