 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has been ranked the worst performing of the eight Metros in South Africa in terms of aggregate revenue collection (at 85% of budgeted revenue) as well as worst performing in terms of expenditure (at 83.2% of budgeted expenditure) - the Democratic Alliance (DA) said on Friday. "These statistics form part of National Treasury’s preliminary report of Local Government Revenue and Expenditure Results released this week," said Leander Kruger Cllr - DA Nelson Mandela Bay Spokesperson for Budget and Treasury. "The Treasury report gave a range of aggregate trends. According to the report the adjusted capital budget for all metros in the 2018/19 financial year was R38.1 billion, of which 77.5% or R29 billion had been spent as at 30 June 2019. "This means that while residents are desperate for service delivery, the current UDM, ANC, AIC, UF, EFF coalition government is unable to collect revenue due to the Metro or to fully spend the money it does collect." Kruger said that the sad state of affairs is compounded by repeated warnings from National Treasury that no roll-over of grant funding to the Metro will be approved unless there is a permanently appointed Chief Financial Officer. "As a result the Metro stands to lose about R500 million in roll-over Grant Funding. Instead of calling a council meeting to appoint a Chief Financial Officer, the Speaker of Council placed the Council in recess for an unprecedented 5 week period," she added. "While these figures are subject to a final auditing process by the Auditor-General (AG), there can be no doubt that the Municipality’s finances are unstable and steadily declining. This in turn will contribute to deteriorating service delivery and economic growth that is desperately needed to create jobs. "The current poor state of affairs is in stark contrast to the positive financial position the Metro experienced while under a DA-led coalition government." Kruger said that according to Business Tech in 2017, the Metro became the second most trusted Metro in the country. "The National Treasury report on the State of Local Government Finances and Financial Management found that Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality was tied in first place for the best financial health in the 2017/18 year, while the DA-led coalition was still in government." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 