 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) says the "current politically defensive" Nelson Mandela Bay governing coalition is displaying "a callous carelessness" by delaying the financial allocations to charitable causes in the city. "On Thursday, a subcommittee of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s Budget and Treasury Committee that deals with financial assistance to charitable organisations was unable to finalise the allocations as it lacked a quorum to proceed," said Leander Kruger - DA Nelson Mandela Bay Spokesperson for Budget and Treasury. "Of the nine councillors who are designated to serve on this subcommittee only the two DA councillors and the MMC for Budget and Treasury attended. "Other members, including ANC Councillors, ANC MMCs and the Patriotic Alliance MMC, Marlon Daniels, simply failed to arrive or to delegate alternates to attend this crucial meeting on their behalf." Kruger said that this subcommittee is mandated by the Municipality’s policy dealing with financial assistance to meet in August every year to consider applications and make annual allocations. "However, we were unable to meet earlier due to the unprecedented recess period, unilaterally declared by the Speaker. This further unnecessary delay in finalising these allocations will have the effect of delaying payments to these financially stressed charitable organisations." Kruger added that some of the more than 200 organisations, who have applied for assistance through this subcommittee include: "Delays in funding to these organisations directly affect the poorest and most vulnerable in our Metro and should simply not be countenanced or allowed." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 