 Port Elizabeth - The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape on Thursday said that it salutes the thousands of communities that came out to vote "for our glorious movement" in Wednesday's ward by-elections. The ANC managed to hold onto all its wards in the by-election. "We congratulate Cde Mlawuli Marasha from Ward 29 in KSD Municipality, Cde Morris Ngabase from Ward 20 in Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and Cde Thembinkosi Ngxangani from Ward 15 at Engcobo Municipality, and we wish them success knowing that their's is to serve and place the people of South Africa at the centre of our project of radical socio-economic transformation," said Gift Ngqondi, ANC Eastern Cape Provincial Head of Communications. "This victory is a clear sign of the confidence that our people have on the ANC and its leadership. "These results are an affirmation that the ANC remains the foremost choice and trusted political party by most South Africans. "We applaud the sterling work that was done by all those activists and volunteers, who invested their energies in making sure we obtain fruitful results and canvassed for votes in all corners of the Province for this gigantic organisation. "We now strongly appeal to Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality to urgently convene an urgent Council meeting that will deal with delayed Council matters and to fast track service delivery in the Metro." Ngqondi said that the ANC commits itself to improve the quality of life of the people of the province, "and to ensure that we grow our economy and create more decent jobs and fight poverty, unemployment and inequality". "We are cognizant of the magnitude of the work that lies ahead, and in the next few weeks we will go back to our communities to thank them for the support and pledge our commitment to working with them in ensuring that we provide better life for all our people." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 