 Bhisho - The Eastern Cape Provincial Government has advertised a call for proposals for the finance, build, operate and transfer (FBOT) of the new Bhisho Offices. "The province aims to develop the precinct through a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model as outlined in the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and for which the National Treasury has provided an approval," said Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane. "This project isaimed at assisting the province to resolve the current shortage of office space for provincial government departments within Bhisho, our provincial capital. "Provincial government departments are currently scattered between Bhisho, King Williams Town and East London hindering effective and efficient coordination of the work of government to rollout development programs." He said that the implementation of the Bhisho Precinct development will provide citizens with ease of access to government services and bolster governments efforts to be a responsive, people centered and development-orientated government. "The province has published a call for proposals in the provincial tender bulletin and in major national newspapers over the past weekend. "We are looking for capable businesses that have the skill, resources and capability to work with us to finance, build, operate and transfer the new office precinct in Bhisho," the Premier said. "The provincial government will move with required speed, guided by the Public Finance Management Act and public good in processing the adjudication of bids from all the bidders. "The call for proposals closes on 31 October 2019 and we put this deadline because we want to get this catalytic project off the ground. The completion of this project will save the provincial government a lot of money." Mabuyane said that currently the provincial government spends too much money renting offices from private businesses. "This current arrangement make us vulnerable to price escalation. Through this catalytic project, we will be able to reduce those costs and invest money into other development areas that require urgent investment," he described. "Our priority is to use this project to stimulate the local economy by creating opportunities through the value chain for businesses from the province. "Documents of this call for proposals are available through the provincial Department of Public Works for all interested businesses." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  