 Port Elizabeth - Petrol price October 2019 - There is no good news for cash-strapped South African motorists, as the Department of Energy over the weekend announced another petrol price increase for October 2019. The Automotive Association of South Africa's petrol price prediction for October 2019 had warned motorists of further petrol and diesel price increases. Over the weekend, the Department of Energy has published the final petrol price changes for October 2019, which will kick in on Wednesday. This is the eighth consecutive fuel price hike since the beginning of 2019. In September, motorists and other fuel users were slapped with hefty fuel price increases. The department of Energy said that large difference between the prices of the 93 and 95 grades of petrol is because of a recalculation in the basic fuel price (BFP) for each category. It said that in terms of the working rules to administer the BFP, the differentials between 95 and 93 petrol grades are adjusted at the beginning of each quarter. "The BFP differentials between 95 and 93 petrol grades have changed and therefore there are different price adjustments between the two grades," the Department added. "The price increase for most grades of petrol and diesel is largely a result of higher international petroleum product costs, arising from a higher oil price following drone attacks on Saudi Arabia’s oil plants. "This upward movement led to a higher contribution to local prices of between 35 c/l and 42 c/l for petrol and diesel, respectively." It said that, the rand also appreciated against the US dollar during the period under review, on average, when compared to the previous period, which had a more positive impact on fuel prices. The average rand/US dollar exchange rate for the period 30 August 2019 – 26 September 2019 was R14.84 compared to R15.17 during the previous period. "This led to a lower contribution to the BFP on petrol, diesel and illuminating paraffin by 16 c/l, 17 c/l and 17 c/l respectively." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 