 Bhisho - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, denied reports in a leading newspaper that he unduly gave himself a Jeep Cherokee that previously belonged to the African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape. Mabuyane is the ANC Provincial Chairperson and previously served as its Provincial Secretary. "During the period I was working as the Provincial Secretary of the ANC, a Jeep Cherokee was donated to the ANC Provincial Office and was registered as an asset under ANC for almost two years," the Premier said. "At a point of the disposal of the vehicle, when the car was almost out of motor plan, I was given first right in line with how the ANC has done it to other employees as a I was a full time functionary at the time of the donation and having used the vehicle for that long. "An arrangement was agreed upon between me and the ANC on how that transaction will be done. Yes, the car was legitimately transferred in my name by the ANC on that understanding. "I did not transfer the vehicle myself to myself as insinuated by the Mail and Guardian. Those, who want details of this can contact the ANC for more details. "The Mail and Guardian was referred to the ANC for more details on this matter and they did not do that." Mabuyane said that on the so called Divisions between him and Cde Babalo Madikizela "it's a figment of somebody's imagination. There is no such." He said that on the leadership contest in the party "every member of the ANC meeting  requirements is allowed to contest any leadership  position in the ANC, Cde Madikizela  included. "But for now, I believe this is an attempt to peddle lies and create baseless and  unfounded perceptions to cause paranoia and panic in membership of the ANC and it's elected leadership. "We are serving our four-year term as servants of the ANC members. As elected leaders we are steadfast, focused and committed to that responsibility to serve the people of the Eastern Cape province."  Mabuyane appealed to those, "who are peddling these lies to refrain from that and to give us space and time to diligently serve our people". "I want to state categorically clear that I have nothing  to do with Mr. Bam, I have never asked anything from him. He must stop dragging my name into the mud," he said. "I also believe that this is just a smear campaign, stage managed to tarnish my image, cast aspersions on my integrity and credibility for reasons best known to those, who are doing this. One day, those who are behind this will be exposed." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 