 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, who is also the Provincial Chairperson of the African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape, told party delegates at the opening of the strategic plan of the ANC in the Nelson Mandela Bay Region over the weekend that the situation in the Bay is concerning. "The state of this municipality is very concerning and we have been making point time and again without seeing progress on the issues we have identified as challenges confronting the metro," Mabuyane said. "The report by National Treasury following their mid-year visit to the city indicates that governance in the metro has seriously distressed." He said that one example highlighted in the report is the fact that the City has gone through eleven City Managers that were approved by Council within a period of ten years. "It goes on to explain that there were many more of them in-between this same period that had not gone through Council approval," Mabuyane said. "It also argues that since the election of this new coalition Council, there have been clear signs of deterioration in leadership and accountability. "It is quite worrying to learn that the municipality has maintained a qualified audit opinion for the seven successive periods since 2011/12 financial year. The reasons that have been cited for this qualified audit opinion are property plant and equipment, creditors exchange transactions and irregular expenditure resulting from the misuse of Supply Chain Management processes." He added that another area of concern in the city is the fact that "most service delivery targets are not achieved, especially on housing targets and connections". "This means that our strategic planning workshop must further give a clear guidance to ANC Deployees in the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Council. Losing this metro was a great blow for the ANC in the province and if we don’t change and improve on our work, it will be a difficult task to win it back in 2021," the Premier said. "Although our performance in the region improved in the recent general elections, we are still below the 50% threshold. This means that we are not enjoying confidence from the people of the people of Nelson Mandela region, which is a huge indictment for a national liberation movement that is supposed to be a leader of society. "When we lose support especially in areas which were previously our strongholds, it is only as a result of our own actions. As President OR Tambo explained, no political force can destroy the ANC, it is only the ANC that can destroy itself." Mabuyane said that the number of protests that have taken place and we are beginning to see is itself an indication of a growing trust deficit between the people and their movement. "Communities will not embark on protests if they have confidence in an ANC that can be able to resolve their problems. Let us use this workshop to reflect on this reality and come up with strategies of rebuilding the trust and confidence some sections of society have lost in our movement." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 