 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Transport Month activities this October will not only highlight various modes of transport and a pothole repair programme; it will also culminate in a strategic consultative workshop. Member of the Mayoral Committee for Roads and Transport, Cllr Rosie Daaminds, said it is high time that improved road surfaces and especially a pothole eradication programme should be seen in the same light as any other community safety initiative. "We are working closely with our Safety and Security Directorate as they are responsible for law enforcement on our roads while we must ensure that road surfaces are not endangering lives. "I am pleased that all the activities, which include helicopter and boat rides for selected school children, form part of a broader strategic objective to make our roads safer for motorists and pedestrians alike." She said that municipal officials will join me on a train ride next week to experience what type of services commuters are subjected to on a daily basis. "We cannot just look at modes of transport, we also need to look at the cleanliness and safety considerations for our residents who are compelled to use these services on a daily basis," MMC Daaminds said. "Mindful that we are living in an electronic age, we are planning a digital data collection and analysis programme, to ensure that our budgeting and operations correspond to fulfill the needs of the community at large. "This approach is part of a long term strategy - beyond Transport Month - to serve our residents better." A media launch will take place on Thursday, 3 October in Motherwell and the Industry Consultative Workshop is planned for 29 October. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 