 Port Elizabeth - In September 2019, Leigh Petrie will be walking the Hantam Enduro, a seven-day, 136km walk near Calvinia in the Northern Cape. Having previously completed the Tankwa Camino (256km, 10 days) and the Roggeveld Enduro (96km, 5 days), this time he will be using the walk to raise funds for the Thand’usana Baby Home of Port Elizabeth. A ministry of the Newton Park Methodist Church, Thand’usana (“love a baby”) provides a safe, temporary home for abandoned and neglected babies in the Port Elizabeth area. The organisation, under the direction of Coordinator Lorna Lamerton, cares for and protects children who have been removed from their homes due to abuse or neglect; others have been given away voluntarily, often due to circumstances of poverty. The organisation recently dedicated a baby “drop-safe”, where new-born babies can be deposited at any time of the day or night, and from where they will be taken into the care of the safe home. A legal procedure is followed to report the event to the South African Police Service, and to ensure that the babies are cared for until placed with foster homes. The running costs for the baby home are onerous, and to assist with relieving their financial burden, Leigh’s goal is a simple one: he wants at least 136 people to donate R1 for every kilometre he will be walking. Thand’usana is a registered Non-Profit Organisation and Public Benefit Organisation, and the organisation is audited annually to ensure that all donations made are applied in the care of the babies. Please support Thand’usanaby supporting Leigh with a donation to the following account: A Section 18A certificate can be provided, upon request, for any donations made. leighpetrie001@gmail.com Lorna Lamerton:info@thandusana.co.za Thand’usana: 041 365 722 NPO No: 068/466 PBO No: 930028263 www.thandusana.co.za www.tankwacamino.com Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 