 Port Elizabeth - Three suspected teenage robbers were arrested by Port Elizabeth police on Wednesday afternoon following a high speed car chase. "Being alert at all times and staying focused when on duty is certain to create nervousness among criminals," said police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "It is alleged that on Wednesday afternoon, at about 16:40, while members from Mount Road Crime Prevention were busy with patrols in the Deal Party area of Port Elizabeth, they noticed a white Toyota Avanza with four occupants drive passed them. "The members were aware that a Toyota Avanza was implicated at various crimes scenes and became suspicious when this particular vehicle had no registration plates at the rear." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that the members immediately made a U-turn and followed the vehicle. "When the suspects noticed that they were being followed, they accelerated thus resulting in a high speed chase. Failing to heed to several warnings to stop, the police fired at their tyres in an attempt to stop them," she added. "The vehicle halted in Sturrock Street in Deal Party. "Three suspects were arrested and a 9mm firearm (no serial number) was found at the back of the vehicle. "The suspects, aged 18 and 19 years old, were detained on charges of illegal possession of firearm and ammunition." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that Detectives are busy investigating possible links to robbery cases reported in the Metro. "A fourth suspect managed to run away. The suspects are expected to appear in court soon." She added that the members were commended for their good work and for successfully foiling another crime from taking place. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  