 Port Elizabeth - In light of a violent student protest on the Nelson Mandela University's South Campus in Port Elizabeth, on Monday staff and students have been advised to liaise directly in using alternative means to continue both work and studies where possible. "Students should liaise directly with their lecturers with regards to alternative study and test arrangements," described the university's Zandile Mbabela. "Lecturers, in turn, should contact their students to offer assurances around the way forward regarding lost class time, tests, assignments and laboratory pracs." According to Mbabela, students affiliated to the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Student Command again tried to block access to North and South campuses on Monday morning. "Protection Services and the additional security personnel deployed from last week who were on the scene tried to clear the barricades," she said. "Violence ensued and the SA Police Service had to enforce the standing interdict that prohibits protesting students from blocking access to the University. This resulted in a stand-off between protesting students and police. "With the a concentration of the action happening  near the South Campus gates, traffic coming in through this campus has been directed to enter through North Campus. Access to other campuses is not restricted." She said that management will try to engage the protesting students, who have not approached the University to verify whether any of the matters agreed to last week had been effected. "The situations continues to be monitored. Staff are urged to liaise with the line managers and students with their lecturers." In a statement, the EFF SC said that it will continue with the shutdown of the NMU that began last week.  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 