 East London - The murder of Ms Leighandre 'Baby Lee' Jegels by her boyfriend is a tragic act of criminality that, even though her killer is arrested, the arrest will not bring back to life this young girl who was everything to her mother, family, friends and colleagues, said Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane. "I am aware of the pain parents go through when they lose a child. This pain is made more needling by the fact that Leighandre 'Baby Lee' Jegels was murdered in front of her mother by her boyfriend, a person who was supposed to love her, the same person is a police officer that was supposed to serve and protect her," he described. "It is painful to me to say these words because I know, they will provide little comfort to a family distraught by the killing of their child and sister and to the boxing fraternity that lost the SA female boxing champion. "I wish the family of Leighandre 'Baby Lee' Jegels, his friends and boxing colleagues, especially her boxing club, All winners boxing club, strength as they deal with her tragic death." Mabuyane said that he also welcomed the swift arrest of Leighandre 'Baby Lee' Jegels’ murderer by the South African Police Service and I hope that the justice system will be harsh to this killer. On Sunday, at 15:00, together with the Eastern Cape MEC for the Department of Sports, Recreation, Arts and Culture, Mabuyane visited Leighandre 'Baby Lee' Jegels’ mother in hospital to check on her condition as she was hospitalized after the boyfriend shot her. "During our visit, we will talk to Ms Jegels with the intention of comforting and consoling her as she deals with the tragic loss of her daughter while recovering from the gun wounds caused by this killer," he said. "Gender based violence is a serious crime in our province and it is now time for the people of this province to put an end to violence against women and children. This requires all members of society and it will never stop until society stops it. "As the people of this province we have to soundly and physically reject violence against women and children by reporting any incident from verbal abuse, slapping, punching in the face of women by their lovers to law enforcement and by not having mercy on those who abuse women and children. "Fighting gender based violence should not only be done in August but must be done daily by everyone, including every man; young and old." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  