 Port Elizabeth - Over the weekend, the tagline #ShareTheBay was trending on Twitter and undoubtedly many locals probably thought it was a good thing, until they followed the conversation. The #ShareTheBay campaign had not gone according to plan; it was actually trending as blowback from what many people considered it a campaign that failed to ignite interest in the Bay days earlier. Launched in 2015, the #ShareTheBay campaign seeks to encourage locals and visitors to post about their wonderful experiences in Nelson Mandela Bay on social media using that same tag so as to encourage others to visit and explore the Bay and its amazing offerings. But if all publicity is good publicity, then the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and its partners probably got their money’s worth. For many, it ended up being a lesson in how to or not  when conceptualising influencer-driven social media campaigns. It all started on Monday last week when the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality hosted 12 celebrity "influencers" - social media personalities with enough credibility muscle in specific industries and a huge audience that they can persuade to act based on their recommendations.   Privileged to welcome influencers @LindaMoeketsi, Katlego Selekane, @barbiliscious, @Sincerelyward, @ChanitaFoster, @NwabisaJoka, @MbauReloaded, Tebogo Lerole, @casspernyovest, @Carpo_mr_ & Allana Foster in the Bay as we prep for #SHAREtheBay #TourismMonth. Enjoy the Bay. ?????? pic.twitter.com/uRgD4SIyZe Getting all these celebrities to Nelson Mandela Bay and hosting them on a four-day all-expenses-paid trip did cost the Metro and local businesses that participated in the campaign a considerable amount of money. The celebrities did not just come for their love of the Bay - it's business. However, it emerged that this influencer-driven social media campaign had dismally failed. For example, only five of the celebrity influencers – Mneno, Moeketsi, Mohale, Selekane and Foster, had actually met their end of the bargain and actually shared photos of where they were in the Bay with their thousands of followers.   We had a couple of “influencers” here in the week to promote Nelson Mandela Bay. They came, they enjoyed the free stuff and left with most of them not sharing anything via their social media platforms. I want to make a point, please type #SHARETHEBAY in the comments and retweet. pic.twitter.com/ifbX0L4L1j  On Sunday, many also took to Twitter to throw shade at the campaign.   So Linda Moeketsi lied to everyone and said the trip was his birthday getaway. He was spoiling everyone. Cause o Casspers kept on saying thank you Linda, instead of thank you Bobani. Yho ???? Yho SA kodwa #SHARETHEBAY should sue his Ass.   We have brilliant local travel content creators in SA! Just go on the weekly travel tags or check out people like @CeecesTravel. Using celeb "influencers" instead was the wrong outlet and missed opportunity by those behind the failed Nelson Mandela Bay #SHARETHEBAY campaign. ????   #SHARETHEBAY is such a sad hashtag of you click on it. Do we not have local influencers in PE who could’ve done this?? This is what happens when you chase people’s followers instead of people who are passionate about the content they share. You can always see who puts in effort.  What? I have a friend who works for SA tourism, trust me she would have done a 10* better job with her 1.5k followers. She’s basically an unpaid influencer of the company. You guys love wasting taxpayers money with influencers who don’t even align with your brand! However, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, responded that no taxpayers had been mismanaged in the execution of the failed campaign.   The initiative was in partnership and sponsorsed by all the companies involved, no mismanagement of public funds. https://t.co/1EsPwDzUgB  Responding to Tweets that the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and the businesses that were partners on this campaign could have received better return for their investment had they used local influencers, Bobani, Tweeted:  Thank you for your input Asa, we will consider using locals & PE born "influencers" to promote the City, boosting the profile of the Bay & give a better story of the Nelson Mandela Bay a national appeal. ???????We want to promote the Bay as a destination to go to. #ShareTheBay https://t.co/6I1kPXxbwQ   Creatives can submit their proposals to the SRAC, EDTA and my office.Our doors are open.  In the end, #ShareTheBay was trending - just not as those, who conceptualised it had thought. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 