 Flagstaff - Zwelidumile Mbutho, aged 57, who was arrested during Operation Gijima Tsotsi for fraudulently producing a fake liqour license certificate on 17 September 2019 has been sentenced to undergo nine months imprisonment or to pay a R6 000 fine. "He was sentenced on Friday, 20 September 2019 at Flagstaff Magistrate's Court," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "He was arrested at Flagstaff CBD on 17 September during a province wide Provincial Commissioner 's crime combatting and prevention intervention led by Provincial Çommander:Crime Prevention - Brig Malibongwe Ntsabo aimed to quell crime like gender based violence, illicit trade in liquor, illegal fiirearms and general disregard for law in different areas of Eastern Cape." Capt Tonjeni said that the two-month old operation that began on 3 August 2019 has been to East London, Port Alfred, Matatiele, King Wiliam's Town, Lusikisiki and Flagstaff, Mt Fletcher, Qumbu, Somerset East, Aberdeen and Graaf Reinett in a short time yielding numerous successes and community endorsement. "Operation Gijima Tsotsi, entails deployment of resources, human and capital in identified crime hotspots to conduct crime fighting operations. Station Commanders from different clusters are deployed and they come with a wealth of experience to the footbeat and patrol duties." According to Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga alcohol and drug abuse contribute in many ways to the rise in crime hence our focus on illicit alcohol trade and license compliance for authorised dealers. She warned: "Illicit alcohol dealers and licensed dealers who disregard licence conditions do not make the situation any better but exercebate it. We welcome this speedy finalization of this case and hope that it sends a chilling message to all those illicit alcohol traders to better start running because Operation Gijima Tsotsi is catching up with them and will catch them one by one." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 