 Port Elizabeth - During the ward by-elections contested on Wednesday in the Eastern Cape the African National Congress (ANC) and the Democratic Alliance (DA) retained their seats gained in the 2016 Municipal Elections. Here are the new Councillors: ANC Nelson Mandela Bay councillor, Andile Lungisa, took to Twitter to praise those, who ensured the ANC retained its ward in Nelson Mandela Bay. An upset, would have certainly threatened the current ANC-led coalition that is running the Bay.  Nelson Mandela MetroWard 20 Bi-elections ANC:2088UDM:434EFF:215DA:177SRWP:113INDEPENDENT:103ACDP:3SPOILT:29Congratulations to our volunteers who worked so hard. Salute ANC  Commenting on the by-elections, DA Eastern Cape leader, Ngaba Bhanga, said commended his party for retaining Ward 19 in the Buffalo City Municipality, "following a tightly contested by-election". "The DA’s Derek Green emerged victorious and received 71% of the valid votes cast. This shows massive growth after the DA received 57% of the vote in this ward in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections," Bhanga said. "The by-election was also contested by the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), the African National Congress (ANC) the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). "The ward became vacant as a result of the tragic passing of former DA councillor Richard Rooy. "This result is a vote of confidence in the DA, and the endorsement from the voters proves that the DA remains on track ahead of the 2021 local government elections." He said that it is also a clear indication that the residents of the Buffalo City Metro "are tired of being neglected and ignored by an uncaring ANC government". "We are grateful to voters for giving us this mandate and we don’t take it lightly. "The DA also contested Ward 20 in Nelson Mandela Bay and showed growth, with our candidate, Nandipa Qongqo, receiving 5.65% of the vote. In the 2019 National and Provincial Elections the DA only achieved 2.1% of the vote cast," Bhanga said. "This ward became vacant as a result of former ANC councillor Bongo Nombiba being found guilty of fraud and money laundering and sent to jail for 5 years. "The ANC showed a big drop in support to 66.65%. In the 2016 Local Government Election the ANC won the ward with 72.24% of valid votes cast. "This proves that the people of the Metro are fed-up with the ANC’s track-record of crime, corruption and maladministration." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 