 Port Elizabeth –TheWedgewood Golf Club, in Port Elizabeth, will be hosting two rounds of the Mercedes Benz After Work Golf Cup series at the end of September and in November. Despite competitive ambitions, having fun and enjoying golf is at the heart of the Mercedes Benz After Work Golf Cup. With the Mercedes Benz After Work Golf Cup, you can now play a tournament round after work, in a competitive yet relaxed environment. “Maritime Motors has the pleasure of inviting you to play in our nine-hole Mercedes-Benz After Work Golf Cup Series to be held at Wedgewood Golf Club on the 26th of September and 14th of November,” says Hector Nicou, General Manager at Wedgewood Golf Club. The After Work Golf Cup is part of Mercedes-Benz South Africa’s effort to drive the game of golf forward into the future by establishing a 9-hole tournament series to fit current needs and lifestyle. “Time is a luxury and golfers require new formats to fulfil their passion for the sport,” says Nicou. “All 9-hole tournaments are held on weekdays and have a shotgun start at 15h30.” Format-wise, the field is split equally according to handicap. “The maximum official handicap for Men is 24 and Ladies is 27,” Nicou adds. “Unofficial handicapped golfers can participate, but will not qualify for the main prizes.” So, are you ready to take your game to the next level? And even when things aren’t going so well out there on the golf course – remember, you could still be sitting in the office like the others. Therefore, we are sure you agree with us when we say: rather spend time in the rough than be having a rough time in the office! To find out more about dates and venues, please register on the Wedgewood Golf Club website. For further inquiries, call 041 450 9595 or email manager@wedgewoodgolf.co.za.You can find the Wedgewood Golf Club along the R302, in Greenbushes, Port Elizabeth. See map HERE. We hope you enjoy a good game and get some great scores at the Mercedes?Benz After Work Golf Cup in South Africa! Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 