 Bhisho - Responding to the 2018/2019 annual Crime Statics released by the Minister of Police, Bheki Cele, on Thursday -  which also painted a bleak picture about safety in the Eastern Cape province, Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, said there is need for an improved strategy to address criminality. "The crime statistics released by the Police Minister reveal a worrying degree of crime and criminal activities in our province. This demands an improved strategy by both government, citizens, civil society organizations and the private sector," Mabuyane said. "Our duty as the provincial government is not to be just shocked about the number of people murdered, stolen animals, number of women and children raped, sexually abused, cases of house breaking, robbery and car hijacking. "Government must work in a way that eradicates crime in our society and for this to happen, we need an improved coordination of community safety programs and crime prevention at government level. There is now a pressing need for improved partnerships with communities and private sector in order to have programs to deal with these crimes." The Premier said that while details of incidents of crime in each area of the province will be released by the Provincial Police Commissioner at a date to be announced, "we are in the process of consolidating the work of law enforcement agencies in the province to interface it with the work of the provincial government for us to coordinate this work". "We have evidence that there is a need for the coordination of all law enforcement agencies working in the province for them to collaborate their operations, share operational and intelligence information in order to prevent these criminal activities from happening, to resolve cases speedily so that the people of the province are safe, live in safe communities," he described. "Crime denies children an opportunity to play outdoors, denies residents of our province time to enjoy leisure, chases away businesses that could create opportunities for the many unemployed people. "The focus of our work as government is to ensure that law enforcement agencies work as a team to serve the people. Part of working as a team require commitment of each member in the Police, Intelligence, SARS, Defense force, Correctional services, Home Affairs, Traffic services, to serve and protect the people at all times." Mabuyane said that in the process of working together, "we will root out corrupt elements in the law enforcement agencies that aid criminals in committing crimes in our province". "Some of these elements in the law enforcement agencies protect criminals by manipulating cases reported, investigated and those brought to the courts. This is making the people of our province vulnerable to crime, something that we are not allowing. We need to protect our people at all times." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  