 Lusikisiki - The OR Tambo district has its first-ever SAPS district Commissioner effective from 1 October 2019. Major General David Kanuka could not believe it when the announcement was made on Tuesday by Minister Thoko Didiza after the official launch of OR Tambo district model. He is also a first appointment in the whole country as the SAPS is moving from police clusters to districts. When he came to Lusikisiki, he was unaware of his fate and the suprise was well-kept until the announcement was made. Brig General Kanuka was currently SAPS Cluster Commander in East London. The announcement was made during an official launch of Presidential District Development model at Zalu Sports Ground at Lusikisiki on Tuesday. President Cyril Ramaphosa; Deputy Minister of Police, Casselle Mathale; Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Ntshinga, were there to shake his hand, congratulating him after Deputy National Commissioner: Policing -Lt Gen Masemola removed the ranks of Brigadier from his shoulder to replace them with ranks of a Major General. National Minister of Cooperative Government, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, explaining the new demarcation and model of service delivery said, in the past 25 years of democratic government there are a lot of good things done that could have been maximised. "We searched for a way on how government can make an impact and resolved that we wont work as three tier government anymore but instead, will work together having one district,one plan and one budget." Dlamini-Zuma elaborated to say that government needs to know what needs to be done, who should do it and all will be under one budget. She said the new model is highly inclusive and everyone should be involved including the community, religious group to name just a few. Dlamini-Zuma recalled that when government began, there was a lot of consultation and she promised that "we will continue consultation and working together." She said her department developed a profile of the OR Tambo district where they discovered that this district has mainly a population of young people. "57% are young people and is OR Tambo district is one of poorest regions. 80% is poor as some go to sleep without food. There is backlog for roads,housing and water provision. The national average for unemployment is 27% but OR Tambo is 37 %. The infrastructure provision is also having challenges. We dont want only problems we are also looking at the potential," she added. Turning to the positive aspects of the district she said agriculture, tourism aquaculture are some of the potential areas of development. "After looking at profile we saw it doesn't fit the district," Dlamini-Zuma described. "When we do strategic plans they must fit profile, added Minister Dlamini. She said OR Tambo is a great district to start with because it has challenges and, "if we can accomplish the challenges that prevail, a lot can be achieved. All the local municipalities are going to be part of the district. This will definitely teach us a lot. We need to learn lessons for urban experience." President Ramaphosa, while delivering his keynote address, said "It is a pleasure to be amongst you and it is an honour to be here to launch the district development model aimed to enable government to work with community." The district development model is a new model to ensure government works with the people to achieve their aspirations, he added. "As we launch today, this is a response aimed to implement what we promised. This model is a true Khawuleza. Our people are tired with words and promises. They want us to act and act now. We need to look to the challenges of the poor and marginalized," he elaborated. The president said because of apartheid planning most people are marginalized and the launch is done in order to steer development to the community with maximised results. Ramaphosa said that currently departments and municipalities work in different corners. He said, "the new model is a respone to working in silos and destroying silos." The President said government will be able to monitor and evaluate with a clear plan of action in sight. "The old way of planning that excludes other departments must end. We want to work in a intergrated and district approach helps government work in a coordinated way. We are now going to work on different targets, that will tell us exactly what are the cost and who will do what. This is the time to deliver what our people want, " he elaborated further. The President said there must be interaction of different stakeholders and more importantly, skills transfer, particularly in the fourth industrial revolution. "There are quite a number of partners that want to assist us. We have been holding them back as we are still busy perfecting our model," he revealed. He promised that there is a plan to make Mthatha a Metro and to further develop Port St Johns for tourism. "This is giving us a greater focus on this district." Ramaphosa said that some of these plans wont happen soon, but OR Tambo will implement great plans a d will focus on what is doable. "Minister Dlamini Zuma will lead this model throughout the country. KZN and Limpopo are next. We will evaluate and come with a more aggressive plan. We plan to to 44 districts and eight metros. She is going to be leading us assisted by Minister in the presidency, Minister Mtembu," explained the president further. He also said the land in this area is rich and fertile. He said there is a "unique plant" that grows in this area that has under explored economic benefits. Turning to address gender based violence the president said he listened to women talking about the scourge of gender based violence. "The women who gathered yesterday gave us a clear message that murderers and rapist must be denied bail and instead, handed heavy sentences. We will be handling the matter as parliament." Addressing educational concerns he said the people of this district love and cherish education. "There is s building that was once a college but now hosts government offices. I have instructed ministers relevant to reverse that and restore the previous status of being a college." The SAPS is already implementing and alligning itself with district demarcation as opposed to the current clusters. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 