 Port Elizabeth - A 57-year-old Port Elizabeth man was arrested on Wednesday within hours after allegedly raping a 16-year-old at a house in Gelvandale. It is alleged that while the young victim suffered this horrendous ordeal in a bedroom, drinking continued unabated in the Antelope Street house. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor Mongameli Bobani said although the swift action could be considered scant retribution for the victim, the quick capture of the culprit might have saved other potential victims from this man. “Rape is a heinous crime that should ideally not befall anyone. However, it makes a distinct difference when immediate action and success follows such undesirable incidents. “My heart goes out to the victim and her family and I trust that the National Prosecuting Authority will handle this matter with the same gravity our law enforcement teams did,” Mayor Bobani said. Acting Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Metro Police Chief Frik Terblanche reckons the quicker law enforcement arrest criminals; the more prospective criminals will be hesitant to commit crimes. “While on patrol in Gelvandale on Wednesday at approximately 10am, our officers were informed about the crime and the identity of the culprit. Following a visit at the address in Antelope Street, our officers arrested the suspect at a betting establishment in Korsten. “The suspect was identified and placed under arrest for rape and booked at Gelvandale SAPS. “The victim was taken to Dora Nginza hospital to meet with social workers and will be placed at a Place of Safety. “I commend the officers as their determination paid off. The current scourge of abuse against women and children requires law enforcement agencies to act swiftly to bring all offenders to book. This will further serve as a deterrent,” Terblanche said. The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Metro Police and the South African Police Services collaborate closely to fight crime with regular interactions and operations. The suspect will appear in court on Friday. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 