 Bedford -The Coega Development Corporation (CDC) on Thursday said that it welcomes the successful completion of the Bedford Primary School following the handing over the keys to the Department for the occupation of the school to the Eastern Cape Department of Education (ECDOE). The CDC is an Implementing Agent (IA) on behalf of ECDOE. The project was welcomed with elation by learners from grade R- grade 7. The project, which was, completed just a couple of months shy of the 24-month contract period has seen a great intervention between the community and project managers. Daniel Paterson, the principal of Bedford Primary School expressed gratitude to both the CDC and ECDOE delegation the handover of the school. Paterson expressed how “moving into the new premises of this beautiful facility will not only motivate the teachers to take pride in their work, but will also ensure that we cater to a more motivated and eager audience (the learners), who will no longer have to worry about inadequate and improper learning conditions”. The ECDOE working together with the CDC in the school’s infrastructure programme is a measure set in place in response to the National Development Plan (NDP) vision of delivering quality education through the provision of appropriate, safe and conducive learning and teaching environment. The scope comprises of 3 X Grade R Classroom with Ablutions and playground; 15 ordinary classrooms with attached HoD offices; Computer Lab and Library block; Science Lab with HOD office; Multipurpose Classroom facility; Nutrition Centre and dining area; Assembly court accommodating games court activities; Administration Offices block, paved access ways and parking area and supporting services infrastructure which are crucial elements of the learning environment. Sharing similar sentiments to that of Principal Daniel Paterson, CDC Head of Marketing and Communication, Dr Ayanda Vilakazi enunciated his great sense of appreciation of the results achieved by the ECDOE and the CDC in making sure that children receives their basic right of being educated in a conducive learning domain. “It is evident that high quality infrastructure facilities improve student outcomes/performance and reduces dropout rates, amongst many other benefits. It is for this reason, that relevant stakeholders like the Department have prioritized the building of school infrastructure in the province, we as the CDC could not hold back in ensuring that such initiatives become a success” he said. One of the success factors of the project has been its job creation. Throughout the life span of the project and at peak periods, there had been in excess of 111 direct jobs created for the community of Bedford. “This achievement is indicative of our resolve to ensure job creation and socio-economic benefits through state driven infrastructure development,” concludes Dr. Vilakazi. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 