 East London - Eastern Cape SAPS say they are concerned about fake news, messages, voice-notes and pictures circulated via different social media platforms with scary content, threatening the community about an eminent danger emanating from foreign aggressors. "These messages published on social media and online creates unneccessary panic, anxiety, discomfort and uncertainty about public safety and national security. This is happening despite the fact that the source of the messages has not been verified," said Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. "In the past few days, our police members had responded to similar calls ignited by social media content, only to find its a false alarm. "We want to appeal to the public not to give much credit to these messages or share them further." She said that when there is eminent threat to public safety and national security, the citizens will be informed by the relevant authorities. "Various state organs responsible for national security are capable in their duty and responsibility of protecting the country and its citizens," she added. As President Cyril Ramaphosa said in his national address on Thursday, let us desist from fueling a climate of fear and confusion. "We must act responsibly and stop disseminating fake videos, photographs and messages, especially on social media, with an intention of negatively portraying our country and its people," Ramaphosa said. "This misinformation is also being disseminated in neighbouring countries and throughout the world, causing panic and putting lives in danger. Let us not be misled. Let us not be provoked." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 