 Makhanda - Police in Makhanda (formerly Grahamstown) on Monday arrested a 15-year-old girl, who had earlier on been reported abducted for defeating the ends of justice. "After an intense investigation, it was established that the 15-year old, who alleged that she was kidnapped on Sunday, admitted that the report was not true," described police spokeesperson, Captain Mali Govender. "A case of defeating the ends of justice has been opened for investigation and the suspect has been taken into custody. "She will appear in court early this week." The 15-year-old, Siphelele Kila, was located and found in Port Elizabeth unharmed. A case of kidnapping has been opened for investigation over the weekend following a report that was received. According to Kila's aunt, she had been sent by her grandmother to the shop. She apparently later posted on her Facebook that while she was on her way to the shop, a silver grey Toyota Avanza with no number plates stopped next to her. "The driver, an African female with two other African males, who had a Zulu accent, asked for directions to ext.7. She showed them the directions," Capt Govender. "The driver allegedly asked her to come with so that she can show them ext.7 and she got inside the vehicle. They then drove with her towards Ntsika high school and at the robot she asked them where they are going, and she was ordered to shut up. "The vehicle stopped at an unknown place and she was forced inside the boot where she saw another girl." The matter was reported at Joza SAPS where a case of kidnaping was opened as well as a missing person enquiry. Afer she was located a specialist investigator from the Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit accompanied her back to Grahamstown. The investigation into the kidnapping continued leading police to discover that Kila could have faked her abduction. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 