 Mt Fletcher - Efforts of the South African Police Service in the Eastern Cape to ensure that communities are safe and community members feel safe continue to yield results through stabilisation operations. "Disruptive and stabilisation operation by Eastern Cape Station Commanders and other law enforcement agencies resumed on the 06 September 2019 at from 14:00 to 22:00 and again on 2019/09/07 from 13:00 to 19:00 at Mount Fletcher and Katkop policing areas," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "Twelve arrests were made by the group operating in the Mount Fletcher policing area – three suspects for assault GBH, four suspects for dealing in liquor without licence, three suspects for dealing in dagga, two for driving without drivers licence, one for drunken driving. "10 knives and one bag of dagga were also seized." Col Soci said that the group operating in the Katkop policing area effected seven arrests for various crimes ranging from dealing with liquor without a license (five), malicious damage to property (one) and contravening a protection order (one). "Fines to the value of R9 000. 00 were also issued for various traffic offences. Lay ways were also conducted in the Sulenkama area and no stock theft cases were reported during the operating period." The suspects have appeared at various Magistrates Courts on Monday. “The SAPS working in partnership with other law enforcement agencies will continue with these stabilisation operations across the province. Through these stabilisation operations, we continue to restore the confidence of community towards the police,” said Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 