 Port Elizabeth - Excellent teamwork and co-ordination between members from SAPS Thornhill, Kabega Park, Kwanobuhle, the Port Elizabeth Flying Squad and K9 Unit, resulted in the swift arrest of six suspects, who allegedly robbed a clothing store in Humansdorp earlier on Thursday. "It is alleged that at about 14:40, six unknown males entered a clothing store in Main Street in Humansdorp and threatened the staff at gunpoint. They were robbed of cash, clothing and cell phones," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The suspects then fled in two vehicles, a Kia Picanto and a Renault. "The robbery was immediately communicated via police channels and vehicles were alerted to be on the lookout for the getaway vehicles. "All exit routes from Thornhill to Port Elizabeth were blocked off and at about 15:20, the Kia Picanto was spotted on the N2 near Greenbushes." Col Naidu said that SAPS Kabega Park gave chase and forced the vehicle to take the Seaview off ramp where they succeeded in stopping the vehicle. "Clothing and several sim cards were thrown out of the moving vehicle. Three suspects, aged between 22 and 24, were arrested. Several cellphones and clothing were found in the boot of the car." Meanwhile, the Renault had taken the Uitenhage off ramp and was picked off by the PE Flying Squad on the Rocklands Road. "A chase ensued towards Uitenhage. When the suspects noticed police hot on their heels, one of them fired at the pursuing members. Police returned fire and as the vehicle turned into Kwanobuhle, PE Flying Squad managed to cut them off," Col Naidu said. "During the chase, clothing and other items were thrown out the vehicle. Clothing and the cash registers were found in the boot of the car. The suspects, aged between 26 and 31 were arrested. "Both vehicles were hired vehicles. All suspects are from the Motherwell, Kwanobuhle and Swartkops area. "They are detained on charges of possession of suspected stolen property. Detectives are busy establishing their involvement to the business robbery in Humansdaorp. Additional charges will be added in the course of the investigation." Humansdorp SAPS Cluster Commander, Brig John Lebok, commended the excellent team effort of all the stations and units involved in ensuring the successful arrests and the recovery of the stolen items. "The speedy collaboration and accurate dissemination of information to our operational members resulted in limiting any attempts by the suspects in getting away with their crime," added Brig Lebok. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 