 Port Elizabeth - Two security guards were shot and wounded while picking up a colleague in Ross Street, New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, on Wednesday morning. The shooting happened at around 04:50. "The guards were using an unmarked white Isuzu bakkie and shortly after stopping to pick up a third member, an unknown armed suspect walked up to the passenger side and opened fire on the two seated security guards," described police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "He did not attempt to rob the guards and fled the scene in an unknown vehicle that sped off afterwards. "The third member that was still in his house at the time only heard the shots being fired and contacted police and rushed outside to assist his injured fellow workers." Capt Beetge said that the 39-year-old driver was shot in the left side of his chest and is in a critical condition, while his 35-year-old passenger is in a stable condition with a wound in his left leg. "Both were taken to a local hospital for medical treatment." The motive for the attack has not been determined yet and a case of attempted murder has been opened and investigated by the Motherwell SAPS Cluster Serious Violent Crime Unit. Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, has expressed concerns that security guards are targeted in shooting incidents. He added that "although these two guards were not robbed, we need to call on our communities to come forward in assisting with the identification of these suspects and also the locations where illegal fire arms are being hidden and kept. "Today, it is security guards, tomorrow it will be persons of the community being targeted. We need to get these suspects and their fire arms off our streets to secure a safe environment for our communities." Any person with information that could assist police with this investigation can contact Captain Frank van der Berg at 082 394 5957. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 