 King Williams Town - Eastern Cape MEC for Transport, Safety and Liaison, Ms Weziwe Tikana, and the Acting Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Major General Andries Swart, on Thursday held a media briefing on the 2018/2019 Eastern Cape Crime Statistics recently released by the Minister of Police, General Bheki Cele. "The South African Police Service (SAPS) has the responsibility to provide policing services and ensure the safety in accordance with Outcome 3 of the Government Programme of Action," explained police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "In fulfilling the above-mentioned mandate, it is necessary that SAPS constantly provide different stakeholders and communities with a broad scenario of the crime situation in the Province. "In essence, Crime Statistics must be utilised as early warning to strengthen crime prevention operations and various other strategies meant to ensure that people are and feel safe." Brig Kinana said that police remain concerned with Rape and Sexual Offences which have depicted increases of 7.1% and 10.6% respectively while Attempted Sexual Offences depicted a 22.0%. "This is worrisome especially that we still receive reports of young girls and older women raped. Although this is not an easy category to police but we remain steadfast in making inroads to see this trend changing," he added. "What brings solace in this category is the tremendous work by our FCS Detectives who continue to secure long sentences for perpetrators of such crimes. "We will in the next week issue a media statement of the successes by these detectives where many life sentences and years sentences were imposed to accused from 1 April 2018 to 30 March 2019." A decrease of 0.7% was depicted for property related crimes. "Although a decrease was achieved in the category, it remains worrisome for us that home robberies depicted a 0.2% increase as this falls on the category of the most feared crimes in our society. Robberies at businesses have depicted a decrease of 0.9% and that is encouraging."  Brig Kinana said that another concern for police is the 4.6% increase on contact crimes with all categories depicting increases.  Giving the address following the presentation of the Eastern Cape 2018/2019 Crime Statistics, MEC Tikana said, “When analysing and interpreting the South African Police Service (SAPS) crime statistics for the period 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019, it is fair to say that they do not make for a good reading. "They are reflective of some of the challenges that continue to grip the country and the province around the issue of Gender Based Violence, with mostly women on the receiving end of that violence.  “As this department, we remain steadfastly committed in making people feel safer and will continue to mobilise the public in forming concrete partnerships and craft implementable strategies to defeat the scourge of crime." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 