 Port Elizabeth - The Mount Road SAPS Cluster Detective Trio Task team on Tuesday called on the community to assist them with their investigation into two unrelated house robberies reported on Monday and in the early hours of Tuesday morning. "In the first incident, it is alleged that on Monday, at approximately 12:10, a 57-year-old woman was busy hanging up her washing at her Lonsdale Road home in Mangold Park when she was confronted by an unknown male," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "She was forced back into the house where two other suspects entered. "The suspects fled with jewellery, cash, cellphones, laptops, TVs, a playstation and clothing. It is not clear how the suspects fled from the scene, but it is suspected that a vehicle was involved." Capt van Rensburg added that no one was injured during the robbery. In another unrelated robbery on Tuesday, at approximately 02:10, a 21-year-old woman and her husband were asleep in their house in Msundulu Street, Walmer, when the front door was kicked open and two unknown men entered. "They took four cellphones, two TVs and a handbag containing cash. The complainant did not notice a firearm, but that the one suspect was armed with a knife. The suspects fled on foot and no one was injured during the robbery." The Mount Road SAPS Detectives Trio Task team is appealing to anyone, who may have any information with regard to these house robberies to contact them. "All information supplied is strictly confidential and callers have the right to remain anonymous. Capt Graham Rowan can be contacted on 0824421457." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  