 Mthatha - In an effort to address to make local communities feel and be safe, OR Tambo District members conducted operations around Mthatha and surroundings and confiscated a shotgun and two pistols and arrested several suspects. "A 57-year-old man was arrested by Mthatha and TRT members after he was found in possession of a 9mm Norinco pistol (serial number filed off) with seven rounds of ammunition at Mputi locality in Baziya on Tuesday, at about 00h35," said police spokesperson, Captain Dineo Koena. "He will appear before Mthatha Magistrate's Court on Wednesday facing a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition." On the other hand, Mthatha K9 members made a follow up on information about a security guard that was in possession of firearms at a local shop in Mqanduli on Tuesday, at about 10h00. "A 29-year-old foreign national was found in possession of a shotgun with 20 shells, a 9mm Pistol with 10 rounds, several counterfeit pills and illegal viagra. He will be caused to appear before Mqanduli Magistrate's Court on Wednesday." Capt Koena said that both firearms will be sent for ballistic testing and the suspects will be profiled and linked. Meanwhile, Mthatha Vispol members visited illegal shebeens and conducted body searches on Monday night. "An illegal shebeen was shut down at Link locality at about 20h00. A 29 year old man was arrested and liqour was confiscated," she said. "A 25-year-old man was also arrested for selling liqour without license at Mandela Park at about 21h30 and liqour was confiscated. "A 29-year-old man was arrested after he was found in possession of 32 × Boss Mandrax at Slovo Park at about 23h00." She added that a 25-year-old man was arrested for possession of 0,0129 dagga, 04 × Boss Mandrax, 04 × Tik sachets and an amount of R390 in cash. "They all will appear before Mthatha Magistrate's Court on Wednesday." Acting District Commander, Brigadier Mandlakhe Twala, commended police for the arrests. "Let's dominate the space and bring back the community trust. The perpetrators of crime should feel our presence," he added. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 