 Whittlesea - Members from Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offence Unit in Whittlesea arrested a 27-year-old man, who is also a caretaker at school in Whittlesea, for rape. "It is alleged that the victim 7-years-old was afraid to go to school as she allegedly been raped since 2018," said police spokesperson, Captain Namhla Mdleleni. "Police were summoned and immediately attended to the complaint." Capt Mdleleni said that the suspect was arrested and will appear before Whittlesea Magistrate Court facing charges of rape. The news comes days after the Eastern Cape Department of Education announced the suspension of a Lusikisiki subject advisor for allegedly raping a six-year-old girl. "A Lusikisiki subject advisor who has allegedly raped a six year old child has been summarily placed on suspension by the Department of Education," said ECDOE spokesperson, Mali Mtima. "The advisor is currently in police custody following community whistleblowing. The department served him with a precautionary suspension in the police cells where he is currently incarcerated. "The formal disciplinary processes which will be presided over by a competent commissioner/ arbitrator from the Education Labour Relations Council (ELRC) will be scheduled in due course." Mtima said that the department will provide the ELRC with all the relevant information, including a full investigation report, within two days from now. "Noting the seriousness of the alleged crime, the Department's processes will not be hamstrung by his incarceration; an application will be made to the South. African Police Services and the Correctional Services department to allow for the hearing to be conducted in the police station or wherever he might be held," he said. "Meanwhile, the Department has provided full counselling service for all learners and teachers of the school of the victim." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 