 Port Elizabeth - Four teenagers are expected in court on Monday after they were arrested by the Port Elizabeth Flying Squad over the weekend following a hijacking incident that happened in Uitenhage. Meanwhile, police also nabbed a robbery near Humansdorp as he fled to the Eastern Cape after a robbery in Knysna. "It is alleged that on Saturday, at about 01:50, the complainant, aged 45-years-old was on his way home when he was stopped in Ross Gradwell Street in Uitenhage and hijacked of his VW Jetta 6 at knife point by five unknown males and a female. "They took R100 cash and his vehicle," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "He managed to flee and seek help. "At about 07:15, the same day, the PE Flying Squad members (W/O Severiano Blundin and Const Eugene Abrahams) acted on information received about a vehicle that was hijacked in the Uitenhage area and was on its way to Port Elizabeth to be sold." Col Naidu said that the vehicle, a VW Jetta 6 was spotted with no registration plates at the corners of Standford and Kempston Roads. "When the suspects spotted the police vehicle, they tried to speed away, but drove into dead end in Kempston Road. The five occupants alighted and started running. The members managed to tactically apprehend four of them while one managed to flee." The suspects, aged between 16 and 19 years old, were detained for hijacking and are expected to appear in the Uitenhage Magistrate's Court on Monday. "The vehicle was impounded for further investigation."  In another incident, the same members were almost completing their tour of duty when they responded to information about a business robbery, which occurred in the Knysna area in the Western Cape. "It was further alleged that the suspects were seen passing the toll road at Tsitsikamma, heading for the Eastern Cape," said Col Naidu. "At about 18:45, the members headed towards the N2 and just outside Humansdorp, the suspected vehicle was seen speeding away from ensuing private security vehicles. The members joined in the chase and succeeded in forcing it off the road. "One suspect, aged 39, was later apprehended. Two cellphones, a watch and a small amount of cash was seized. The VW Polo TSI was also confiscated." Humandsorp SAPS Cluster Commander, Brig Lebok, praised the members and the security company for their excellent team effort and commitment in expeditiously locating the sought vehicle and apprehending the suspect. "Our men and women in blue are alert and criminals are warned that we will tolerate them committing crimes in other Provinces and think of escaping to the Eastern Cape. This speedy arrest is an excellent example of ‘you can run but you cannot hide'," he said. "The members made sure that the suspect was safely back in the Western Cape before reporting off duty at 01:00 on Sunday morning." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 