 Port Elizabeth - Teamwork and swift coordination between SAPS members and a private security company resulted in the arrest of three house robbery suspects in Kabega Park, Port Elizabeth, over the weekend. "It is alleged that on Saturday, at about 18:50, an 18-year-old woman was watching TV at her home in Tiran Road in Summerstrand, Port Elizabeth, when she was accosted by an unknown male in her house," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Her tenant was also present, but asleep throughout the incident. The suspect produced a knife and threatened her. "She was tied up and locked in a room while the house was ransacked. "Several TV’s, an iPad, a cellphone, other household items and her Hyundai vehicle were taken." Col Naidu said that, unknown to the robbers, the vehicle was fitted with a tracker and it was tracked to Masson Street in Kabega Park where PE K9 unit members found it abandoned. "The movement of the vehicle was backtracked and it was further established that the vehicle stopped at a house in Pollock Street in Rowallen Park, Port Elizabeth, for about 10 minutes." She said that at about 22:10, the members raided the house in Pollock Street in Rowallen Park. "The outbuilding of the house was searched and three males aged 37, 20 and 34 years old were found inside. All the stolen property was found hidden in the room." All three males were arrested and detained on a charge of possession of suspected stolen property. Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended all those involved in the speedy recovery and arrest of the suspects. He also emphasised the importance of ensuring the safety of vehicles through the installation of tracking systems which assist in swiftly tracing stolen vehicles. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 