 That’s right Port Elizabeth, the annual Con.ect Geek Convention is back, and promises to be even bigger and better than ever before! Now in their 6th year, this local geek convention has some new tricks up its sleeves to be on the lookout for. Con.ect hosts a yearly convention in Port Elizabeth that brings together aficionados and lovers of geek and popular culture from across the country. This convention was created in order to create a space in which like-minded people can gather with one another and share their passions, and where fans of various genres can get together. Growing from 150 attendees in 2014 to over 2000 in 2018, Con.ect is always looking for new ways to entertain guests and bring them the latest developments in the gaming and popular culture world. Since its inception, Con.ect has grown to such a degree that the city of Port Elizabeth has become the focal point of popular culture within the Eastern Cape.  This year Con.ect is expecting over 2000 attendees to pass through their doors. The programme will include a cosplay masquerade and competition, an eSports LAN hosted by Gaming AD, workshops by Crafty Arts, Sew Creative and The Duskwood Forge, various stage demonstrations and performances, a geek quiz, lots of geek-specific merchandise stalls, and food trucks. A virtual reality experience, board game demonstrations, arcade and pinball machines, face painting and a kiddies corner will also be available for enjoyment. 2017:  2018:  Many stalls will have card machines, and while there are ATMs on campus, the team at Con.ect advise that attendees bring more than enough cash. The convention will be taking place on the 5th and 6th of October in the Nelson Mandela University Madibaz Indoor Sports Centre. Doors open on both days at 10am and close at 6pm so you can enjoy a whole day of geeking out and meeting fellow aficionados who love all the things you love. Tickets will be available on both days, and cash ticket sales will be available at the stadium ticket booths, while card ticket sales will be available at the entrance to the main convention hall. The Weekend Pass will be R100 per person, and the Saturday or Sunday Day Pass will be R60 per person. To find out more about Con.ect, visit their Facebook Page. 