 Bhisho - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Thursday welcomed news that Mhlontlo Local Municipality Councillor, Nolundi Ludidi, was found alive after she went missing on Friday last week. "Just like many other people of the province that were concerned about the safety and whereabouts of the Mhlontlo Local Municipality Councillor, Nolundi Ludidi, I am happy that she has been found safe and alive," said Mabuyane. "I appreciate the efforts of the people of the province, members of the public, members of the provincial government, members of the ANC, South African Police Services to find Councillor Ludidi. "The current climate in our society requires all of us to ensure that our whereabouts are known by our families, friends, the people we leave behind when we travel and those we are traveling to meet with." Mabuyane said that the serious crimes against women and children demand that "all of us are sensitive to the important need to share such information with our contacts so that people know we are safe at all times". "It is important that going forward the high level of efforts we employed in searching for Councillor Ludidi are employed when we search for missing people in our communities," he described. "All of us must find ways to speed up searching for our friends, loved ones, children and associates when we receive reports that they are missing. "There is a lot that we can achieve when we work as a united force to find missing people. It is now time to do more of this united action sooner and quicker so that we can find those abducted, kidnapped in our communities." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 