 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) on Friday conducted an oversight visit to he Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS) bus depot in Port Elizabeth. There it met with members of the Board of Directors of Spectrum Alert, the company managing the IPTS on behalf of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality.  "The Democratic Alliance is proud of the fact that while we were in government we were able to operationalize the 'still born' IPTS system, after years of delays by the previous government and billions of Rands that were lost to corruption," said fromer Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Athol Tollip, who is also DA Federal Chairperson and DA NMB Caucus Leader. "The IPTS is part of the DA’s plans to redress the historical spatial legacies of inequality and create a transport system connecting residents to affordable and reliable access to opportunities. "We believe it is imperative that every effort is made to safe-guard the system from political interference and collapse and ensure that the transport system remains operational and delivers a sustainable competent service to residents of Nelson Mandela Bay in partnership with the municipality." Trollip said that under the current coalition government, the successes of the IPTS are being undermined by the unlawful actions of certain individuals "and political meddling of the ANC MMC for Roads and Transport."  Some of the challenges the system faces are: "The Democratic Alliance will be writing to the Acting City Manager, Anele Qaba, as well as the MEC and Minister of Transport to urgently seek clarity and solutions to the unfolding crisis at the IPTS," said Trollip. "An urgent meeting must be called where all the relevant role-players are informed of the current challenges and where lasting solutions can be found. "We cannot allow the collapse of our IPTS as it is the poor in Nelson Mandela Bay and the Northern Areas in particular who will be the most affected, with catastrophic job losses and the loss of a desperately needed public transport system."  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 