 King Williams Town - King Williams Town police arrested about 40 suspects, aged between 18 and 45 years over the weekend. "Police conducted several operations and managed to arrest suspects for different crime ranging from common assault, business robbery, contravention of protection order, burglary and theft, driving under the influence of alcohol, drunk and disorderly, intimidation, malicious damage to property and possession of drugs," said police spokesperson, Captain Siphokazi Mawisa. "There was a Vehicle Crime Point where 56 vehicles and 70 people were searched by police leading to a traffic fine of R1 000 issued for driving without a license. "A 40-year-old was arrested for selling liquor without license and the outlet was closed down by police and liquor was confiscated." She said that in a Blue Lamp Operations, Zwelitsha police conducted a stop and search where they confiscated dangerous weapons and members of the Flying Squad arrested a 32- year-old male for driving under the influence. "Detectives also conducted suspect raiding at Zwelitsha and Bhisho and managed to arrest 17 suspects for robbery, burglary, possession of suspected stole property (a plasma TV). Some of the suspects appeared in court on Monday, while the rest are expected in court on Tuesday. King William’s Town SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier Luntu Ngubelanga, applauded the members for a job well done and encouraged the members to continue with these operations. “Let us create a safe and secure environment for all and ensure that the perpetrators are behind bars,” he added. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 