 Port Elizabeth - A 50-year-old Port Elizabeth man arrested over the weekend after shooting his wife was on Monday discharged from a local hospital and taken to court. "He will remain in custody at St Albans and will appear again on Monday, 9 September, at the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court," said police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse van Rensburg. "The investigation is still ongoing. "The name of the suspect will not be released to protect the identity of the children." According to police information, two Port Elizabeth women were shot, one fatally wounded and one in the intensive care unit in hospital in separate incidents of shooting that took place over the weekend. In one incident, the 50-year-old man had been placed under police guard at hospital after he allegedly shot his estranged wife, aged 36, in the head. "It is alleged that at about 09:00, on Sunday morning, SAPS Humewood responded to a complaint of domestic violence at a house in Brighton Street in Summerstrand," said Capt Janse van Rensburg. "The couple are currently in the process of a divorce. The victim and her sister went to the house to fetch some of her belongings when they were confronted by her husband, who was armed. "A shot was fired injuring the woman in her head." She said that while paramedics were attending to the woman, it is further alleged that the suspect locked himself in the bedroom until police arrived and he handed himself over. "He was arrested on a charge of attempted murder. While detectives were still processing the crime scene, they found syringes in the room where the suspect had locked himself." It is suspected that he may have injected himself with an unknown substance. He was taken to hospital. "The victim was also taken to a separate hospital for treatment." In another incident, police are seeking the suspects/s who fatally shot Sisanda Fani (30) from Walmer. "She was found outside a complex in Restitution Road in Walmer. Her body was found at about 06:00 on Sunday morning by a resident, who exited his Fairfield Complex and noticed a VW Polo parked on the pavement in front of the complex." Fani sustained a gunshot wound to the head. "She resided in the same complex and the motive for the murder is unknown at this stage. Police are investigating a case of murder." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, is urging women to request for a police escourt them whenever they need to go back home to fetch any belongings especially after leaving home due to domestic related incidents. "Never confront your partner alone in situations of domestic violence as these may have serious or fatal consequences," advised Maj Gen Patekile. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 