 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, has welcomed the life sentences handed to two "ruthless and cold-blooded killers" in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Friday. "On 12 December 2017, at 10:45, Thomas Hammond (59), a Rastafari was walking to the nearby shop with his 4-year-old daughter along the main Road in Kelinskool when he was fatally shot," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "According to witnesses, an unknown gunman alighted from a taxi, approached Hammond and shot him twice in the mouth and head. The accused got back into the taxi and drove off." A week later, investigations led Bethelsdorp detectives to a house in Missionvale where Vuyolwethu Mankonkwana (27) and Fabian Fillis (29) were arrested. "Both accused, allegedly from the Guptas gang remained in custody until the finalisation of the case." Col Naidu said that Hammond had no gang affiliation and the exact motive for the fatal shooting was not known. "On Friday, both accused were sentenced to life imprisonment for murder; five years each for possession of an illegal firearm and five years for unlawful possession of ammunition," she said. "The unlawful possession of firearm and ammunition sentences will run concurrent with the life sentence." Lt Gen Ntshinga applauded the investigating team and the prosecuting authority on handing down the maximum punishment for these criminals. "People who have no respect for human life , let alone innocent ones must be removed from society and placed behind bars where they belong. I am glad that the courts don’t have any mercy on criminals such as these," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 