 Port Elizabeth - Oracle Media has done it yet again! This time they are Finalists in the New Generation National Awards 2019. New Generation Social & Digital Media Awards, founded in 2012, are the largest celebrated digital and media awards in the country. “Not only do we honour the South African creative agency teams for their innovative use of social and digital media, and cutting-edge use of online media and tools, we also acknowledge corporate companies and their in-house marketing teams from across our region for their work on campaigns that help promote their organisations and brands in groundbreaking ways”. With over 40 categories, Oracle Media has been positioned in the top 5 in category: The New Gen Small Business of the Year Award. Indeed an honour to be identified as an innovative Social Media and Digital company in South Africa. Sponsors of the 2019 New Generation Social & Digital Media Awards include: Justpalm.com, Old Mutual South Africa, YOUKNOW+Brandwatch, Futuretech Media and Arc Interactive. Their partnership with LS24Colab and Inside Man Media ensures that these awards not only trend nationally but also on a global scale. “The awards continually evolve to include new trends in social and digital media, new industry technology and platforms, as well as international trends making their way into South Africa,” says Stephen Paxton, managing director of the New Generation Social & Digital Media Awards. This is an exciting time for Oracle Media. With only seven years in business, Oracle Media has grown rapidly to be a recognised change agent and there is no intention of them slowing down. They have an office in Port Elizabeth, Johannesburg and in September employed their first compliment of staff in Durban, servicing a diverse range of clients and delivering over 500 projects they aspire to build on experience and fresh ideas. Oracle Media prides themselves in being able to offer in house photography and videography, unique digital marketing solutions for all their clients as well as offering extended operating hours. Being recognised as a finalist is a true reflection the company’s vision and determination of being the industry leader in their numerous product and service offerings. “I am extremely proud of the Oracle Media Team and what they have accomplished this year. The numerous awards won and now being in the Top 5 in our category of this prestigious award, shows that team work and great ideas pays off for us and our clients” said a clearly excited Neil Barker, MD of Oracle Media. The Gala event will be streamed live around the world and the event will be hosted at The Ballroom, Monte Casio, Johannesburg South Africa, 4 October. New Generation Social & Digital Media Awards partnership with LS24Colab and Inside Man Media ensures that these awards not only trend nationally but also on a global scale. Be sure to tune in! Other Oracle Media Awards: Oracle Media won the Nelson Mandela Bay Media Globe Awards 2019 in the Social Media Influencer (Company) category as top Media Company. Neil Barker, founder of Oracle Media, has been nominated as Top 40 under 40 by the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber. Social Media Committee for Standard Bank. Oracle Media Acknowledged as one of the Top 50 SMME’s in Nelson Mandela Bay. Find the all the Finalists here: www.bizcommunity.com/Article/196/16/195222.html Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 