 King Williams Town - The resolve by Eastern Cape police to reduce the levels of serious crime generators and proliferation of illegal weapons has made a resounding success with 319 rounds of ammunition and 25 illegal firearms taken off the streets over the past week. The illegal firearms included - 21 pistols, two rifles, one shotgun and one homemade firearm. "These were seized at different SAPS clusters in the past seven days through targeted deployment of resources and personnel," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "Eastern Cape police officers embarked on a number of operations in the province from 7 September until 16 September 2019. "Operations including roadblocks; suspect raids; stop and search operations; inspections on liquor outlets; cordon and search operations; and intensive patrols, were conducted in various parts of the province." He said that a total of 1 230 suspects were arrested for various crimes during that period. "Of these, 171 suspects were arrested for drugs related crimes while 53 were arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs and 11 for illegal possession of firearms and ammunition," described Col Soci. "A total of 253 were arrested for assaults; 38 for robberies; 37 for theft of all stock; 35 for rape; 19 were for murder; 17 for house robberies and 15 for business robberies and two for carjacking. "Others were arrested for attempted murder; dealing in liquor without license; possession of suspected stolen property, drunk in a public place to name but a few." He added that drugs such as dagga; heroine; mandrax and cocaine were seized during these operations. "Suspected stolen vehicles, suspected stolen livestock, dangerous weapons and knives were also seized." All arrested suspects appeared in various courts in the province while others were issued with summons to pay fines. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, commended the members involved in all the operations. “When operational policing services are directed and coordinated, arrests are effected to prevent and combat crime in areas where crime is infested. We will continue with these operations until crime is stabilized across the province,” said Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 