 Port Elizabeth - There is more petrol price pain for September 2019. According to the latest petrol price adjustment for September 2019 by the Department of Energy, motorists are in for a hefty petrol and diesel price increase from Wednesday. This is after petrol prices increased in August 2019. Petrol prices in South Africa have now increased for seven out of eight months in 2019. The Automobile Association (AA) of South Africa had predicted a hefty petrol and diesel price increase for September. Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy, Gwede Mantashe, announced the adjustment of September fuel prices based on current local and international factors with effect from the 4 th of September 2019, his department said. "South Africa’s fuel prices are adjusted on a monthly basis, informed by international and local factors. International factors include the fact that South Africa imports both crude oil and finished products at a price set at the international level, including importation costs, e.g. shipping costs," the Department of Energy explained. "The main reason for the fuel price increases is the weakening of the Rand against the U.S. Dollar on average during the period under review. The Rand depreciated on average against the US Dollar from 14.05 to 15.15 Rand per dollar during the period under review compared to the previous one. "This led to a higher contribution to the Basic Fuel Prices on petrol, diesel and illuminating paraffin by more than fifty cents (50.00 c/l). The average Brent Crude oil price decreased from 64.10 US dollars (USD) per barrel to 58.80 USD per barrel during the period under review." It added that the oil prices remained near seven month lows due to escalating trade tensions between China and the United States of America. "Brent crude oil prices lost more than 9% after the U.S.A. vowed to impose new tariffs on Chinese imports and China targeting U.S.A agricultural cargoes. Furthermore, traders were worried that the dispute between the world’s two biggest oil buyers would dent demand." In line with the Self-Adjusting Slate Levy Mechanism Rules, the Slate Levy on petrol and diesel will remain at zero cents per litre (0.00 c/l) effective from the 4th of September 2019. "The combined cumulative Slate balance on petrol and diesel amounted to R689.30 million at the end of July 2019." Based on current local and international factors, the fuel prices for September 2019 will be adjusted as follows: The fuel prices schedule for the different zones will be published on Tuesday, 3 September 2019. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 