 East London - Eastern Cape police say that hundreds of arrests executed during the past week is evidence that the police in the province are committed in clamping down on crime. "Eastern Cape police officers embarked on a number of operations across the province from 16 September until 23 September 2019 through targeted deployment of resources and personnel," described police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "Operations included roadblocks, suspect raids, stop and search operations, inspections on liquor outlets, cordon, search operations and intensive patrols. "A total of 1 362 suspects were arrested for various crimes. Of these, 282 suspects were arrested for crimes detected as a result of police action; 129 for drug related crimes; 61 for driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs and 92 for illegal possession of firearms and ammunition." He added that 176 suspects were arrested for liquor related crimes; 74 for illegally dealing in liquor, one for illegal distribution of liquor and 101 for drinking/being drunk in public places. "One hundred and thirteen suspects were arrested for property related crimes; 21 for burglary at businesses, 56 for burglary at residential premises, 13 for theft of stock and 13 for theft of/ from motor vehicle as well as 10 for other crimes reported under property related crimes." Col Soci said that other arrests included murder (22 people arrested), attempted murder (12 arrested), rape (21 arrested) to name but a few. "Serious crime generators and proliferation of illegal weapons were dealt a huge blow with the recovery of 1 662 rounds of ammunition and 31 firearms - 26 pistols, three rifles, one shotgun and one homemade gun," he described. "Two hundred and eight dangerous weapons including 197 knives, three axes, four pangas and four scissors were also recovered. "Fifteen suspected stolen livestock and eleven suspected stolen vehicles were seized. Traffic and other fines were issued to transgressors. Drugs such as dagga; heroine; mandrax and cocaine were seized during these operations." All arrested suspects appeared in various courts in the province while others were issued with summons to pay fines. Eastern Cape SAPS Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Andries Swart, commended the efforts of the members in dealing with crime in the province. “These arrests and confiscations are direct indicators of the progress SAPS is making in the fight against crime. They are also a reflection of our determination and commitment in making our communities safer,” he said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 