 Port Elizabeth - Calling all leaders in and around Nelson Mandela Bay: be inspired by other captains of industry by attending the Nelson Mandela Bay Leadership Summit 2019. The theme for the sixth annual Nelson Mandela Bay Leadership Summit is “Leadership for a turnaround South African economy” and the event will take place on Wednesday, May 29 at The Sun Boardwalk Convention Centre. Come and see how you can play a role in turning our country’s economy around, and be inspired by our line-up of top speakers, including Thomas Schaefer (Chairman and Managing Director of Volkswagen Group South Africa), Prof. Derrick Swartz (Former Vice-Chancellor of Nelson Mandela University), Yusuf Abramjee (Social Cohesion Activist and Consultant), Stafford Masie (Special Technology Advisor to the Presidency), Tashmia Ismail-Saville (CEO of the Youth Employment Service) and Duke Malan (Communication and Investment Promotion Strategist). The Nelson Mandela Bay Leadership Summit 2019 is presented in partnership with the MIKS Foundation. MIKS Foundation Trustee Alfred da Costa said the purpose of the Nelson Mandela Bay Leadership Summit is to nurture, entrench and promote good leadership practice. “Every year the Leadership Summit presents an excellent mixture of speakers who aim to inspire local leadership to apply good leadership lessons that they have implemented throughout their own careers and years in leadership,” said Da Costa. He said a desired outcome of this year’s event is for the attendees to take lessons from the line-up that they can implement in their spheres of influence. “Secondly, that we as local leaders will hold each other accountable to these leadership practices that we will be engaging in,” said Da Costa. Another Nelson Mandela Bay Leadership Summit 2019 partner, the Nelson Mandela University Business School, is at the forefront of leadership development as an important consequence for business performance, transformation and innovation across Africa. “Our motto, Lead the Change is therefore a deliberate call to action and the business of our business is to nurture and develop an emerging leadership cohort that inspires business prosperity and social good in this digital, disruptive epoch of human history,” said Nelson Mandela University Business School Director Dr Randall Jonas. Jonas said it is therefore important for the Business School to partner with longstanding collaborations such as the Leadership Summit to fortify a leadership ethos and to present various perspectives on leadership for deeper reflection. “There appears to be a dearth of leadership skills in our region and country; and Business Schools have an important mandate to nurture leadership for the benefit of society. This year, 2019, is an election year and the issues around leadership are at the coalface of what constitutes effective leadership to bring about a positive turnaround for our country. "The parlous state of our economy, civil society and social justice deficits are compelling reasons why the Nelson Mandela University Business School is actively collaborating with the MIKS Foundation to create awareness of and to enliven the leadership discourse in our region and country,” said Jonas. The summit is an all-day event taking place on May 29 from 8am. To register and for further information, visit www.nmbleadershipsummit.co.za or contact Charmaine Smith at csmith@studio55events.co.za or on 041 365 7591. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 