 Port Elizabeth - During the Nelson Mandela Bay council meeting on Thursday, councillors also discussed the ongoing violence taking place in the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth and stated that something must be done to address this issue. Democratic Alliance (DA) councillor, Nqaba Bhanga, who is also the party’s Eastern Cape leader, stated that the violence in the Northern Areas is out of control. He said that he had recently paid a visit to the families of slain children, who had been killed as a result of gang violence. African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) councillor, Lance Grootboom, stated that the current African National Congress (ANC) led coalition government that is running the Nelson Mandela Bay needs to focus more on channelling funds into the addressing community safety in the Northern Areas instead of focusing on their own safety. “The amount of money we spend on protecting the MMC’s is a lot and is totally unacceptable. We need people who really love and make sure that they are safe. We want change in the Northern areas,” said Grootboom. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) councillor, Lukhanyo Mrara, stated that colour must not be drawn on the issue of the Northern Areas. “The Northern Areas must not be politicised, we cannot draw colour barriers here. We must come up with a strategy and address the issues of crime by looking at job interventions,” said Mrara. Patriotic Alliance (PA) councillor, Marlon Daniels, stated that people are becoming more accustomed to violence and death in today’s society. “Councillor Bobani fabricates stories of violence; nothing stops a bullet like a job. My father went to jail so I know what it’s like to have a parent in prison,” he said. “The ANC has no regard for coloured people, you have 48 black councillors, one white and one that is half-coloured.” Meanwhile, ANC councillor, Andile Lungisa, refuted Daniel’s statement, saying that the ANC is a non-racial and non-sexist party. More to follow as the council meeting continues… Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 