 Port Elizabeth - The Consumer Protection Act (CPA) came into force in March of 2011, and has been widely praised for the protection afforded to consumers, who are often in a weak position when transacting with large corporations. The CPA, however, finds very limited application to the sale of immovable property, largely due to the fact that it applies only where the seller is a person who sells property in the ordinary course and scope of his business, and most property transactions are concluded between two private individuals. That is not to say that all transactions for the sale of immovable property are excluded. Where the seller is, for instance, a property developer that sells houses in the ordinary course and scope of his business and the purchaser is a private individual, the CPA will apply. The provisions of the CPA furthermore apply to estate agents, since estate agents market properties in the ordinary course and scope of business. Contracting parties should therefore know what protection is afforded to them by the CPA. The CPA, however, provides that a supplier (in the present circumstances the seller) must supply goods that are suitable for the purpose for which it was bought, and goods which are of good quality and free of defects, unless the purchaser was specifically made aware that the goods were offered in a certain condition. If the purchased property has a defect of which the purchaser was unaware, he may return the goods to the seller within six months and claim back any money he has already paid without the risk of a penalty being imposed. The purchaser will be entitled to choose whether the seller should repair the defect at the seller’s expense, or whether the seller should refund the purchaser for the defective property. This provision therefore has the effect of invalidating any voetstootsclause that may be included in the contract. The CPA now provides that the risk will remain with the seller until such a time as the good are delivered. In property terms, this means that the seller remains liable for any damage to the property until such time as the property has been transferred to the purchaser. In summary, the CPA invalidates the voetstootsclause, it reverses the effect of the caveat subscriptorprinciple, it changes the time when risk will pass to the purchaser, and it affords the purchaser a cooling-off period when his decision to purchase was as a result of direct marketing. The CPA is therefore a very powerful tool that can be wielded by a contracting party if it applies to the transaction in question. For more inforation contact Friedman Scheckter Attorneys at friedmanscheckter.co.za or visit 75 2nd Avenue, Newton Park, Port Elizabeth.  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 