 Port Elizabeth - The way you do anything is the way you do everything - This was the title of the matric workshop hosted by the Businesswomen's Association held on Friday at Linkside High School. 100 girls from several schools around the metro spent a morning listening to phenomenal guest speakers and getting to know each other, as they prepare for life beyond high school. Heather Dutton, chairperson of the Businesswomen's Association in PE, opened the morning welcoming the girls. ''Don't wait for opportunities to come to you,'' she said. ''Go out and find them. Make them happen. You are the CEO of your own desk – don’t let the fact that you may not have the opportunity to go to University stifle your dreams.'' Lucia Mtshake, vice chairperson of the Businesswomen's Association was the facilitator for the morning, kicking off with some ice breakers to help everyone feel more relaxed and at ease. Lucia is a school teacher at Alexander Road High School. She has a wonderful way of connecting with people and an excellent sense of humour, keeping everyone smiling and interacting with one another. ''Service + Significance = Success'', were the words of Phumelela Cacela, the first guest speaker for the morning. She is studying a BA in Politics at the Nelson Mandela University. Phumelela is also deputy secretary of the United Nations Association of South Africa (UNASA) Nelson Mandela University Chapter. She spoke about defining yourself and your values. What you stand for, morals, standards and values. She believes strongly in the power of daily affirmations and finding a way to serve. Let excellence be your brand. Liesel Fourie, who is an attorney employed at the Nelson Mandela University shared her knowledge with the girls about social media, the do's and the don’ts. It's important to be aware of what we put out on social media. This is not only important for personal safety to protect yourself from online predators, but your online presence also affects your employability and reputation. Buyiswa Hlangothi, who has her doctorate in Chemistry, lectures at the Nelson Mandela University and is head of the Chemistry department believes everyone is born with intelligence and that they just need that one person who will acknowledge and recognise you. It is important as women to affirm and motivate one another. As women we sometimes shy away from this. "We live in a world of judgment and should surround ourselves with those who edify us and uplift us. ''As leaders we need to be present. We cannot lead by proxy," she said. Nikki Hynch, owner of MPC Recruitment, who has been in recruitment for 25 years imparted important guidelines about putting together a CV and presenting yourself for an interview. Bernadette Nel-Naude is the Community Operations Manager for Atlas Security. She is passionate about teaching women ''to live without fear!'' She believes that, as women we are extremely powerful and as a group of women we are unstoppable. She stressed the importance of reporting crimes and tuning into your intuition. Your 6th sense could save your life. After each speaker the girls were given some time to write down the things they had learnt. They were also given an opportunity to put questions to the speakers. Sam Bowers, Branch Manager for Businesswomen's Association in PE closed the morning thanking everyone involved in another successful workshop, including the sponsors: Global Load Control, Amobia, Coca-Cola Beverages Africa, Cyndi Gilbey Photography, Do4SA, Fat Cats, Investec Private Bank, Linkside High School, Kelston Motor Group, Master Maths, Mobilities, Nashua SmartPrint, Nelson Mandela University, PwC, Sorbet, The Graphic Vine; Special thanks went to the learners and educators of each of the schools who attended including the students from Nelson Mandela University Beyond The Classroom programme. The CSI Youth Outreach committee who organised and put everything together for the day. Image: Left to right - Lucia Mtshake (Vice Chairperson of the Businesswomen’s Association PE), Silindokuhle Sithole Masibambane (Senior Secretary Linkside High School), Liyabona Marwana (Khwezi Lomso Comprehensive School), Jenna Pearson (Alexander Road High School), Francisca Francis (Cillie Hoerskool), Heather Dutton (Chairperson Businesswomen's Association Port Elizabeth). Photo Credit: Cyndi Gilbey Photography Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 