  Port Elizabeth - It’s hard to imagine a world without Google, Facebook or Emoji’s, but just three decades ago, this was the reality. Our world, and the way we live our everyday lives, has changed significantly since the world wide web first came on the scene 30 years ago. Join us as we reflect on how much the web has changed our world so far. Remember the days of recording your favourite song using a cassette tape? Or waiting for the evening news to find out what’s happening around the world? The invention of the web has made these and more activities obsolete. Thanks to new media forms such as live video, streaming apps and online news sites, we now have a world of information right at our fingertips – and we can access it at any time. Similarly, the web has provided a plethora of new ways to keep ourselves entertained. According to The Washington Post, before web, most US home entertainment spending was on video tapes, and US music sales were mostly in the form of vinyl records and tapes. Today, we need only watch a YouTube video, stream music through SoundCloud or scroll through our social media feeds to stave off boredom. Perhaps the most substantial change of all, is the way in which we communicate with one another. Prior to 1989, the masses didn’t have access to the internet and mobile phones were still considered an extravagance. Today however there is widespread internet access around the world, and websites are now specifically designed to be mobile-friendly. Posting letters and making telephone calls have become somewhat of an inconvenience, especially with online chat apps like Skype and Facebook Messenger which allow us to send and receive messages instantaneously. Web developer, web designer, digital marketer, social media influencer. These four professions were non-existent three decades ago. The world wide web has paved the way for many new and exciting careers that don’t necessarily confine workers to a 9-5 office job. Interestingly enough, a recent survey of a thousand children completed by travel company First Choice, revealed that over 52% of them are considering foregoing traditional careers in favour of becoming a YouTuber, blogger or vlogger. Instead of travelling from one store to the next, consumers can now order everything they need online and have it delivered straight to their door. They can also use the web to compare different products and search for the best deals. As a result, business have had to change the way they market and sell their products. For example, the traditional practice of running an ad in the newspaper is simply no longer enough to attract the attention and interest of the modern-day consumer. Would you like to surf the web using the original browser from 30 years ago? A group of developers and designers have created a version of the original ‘WorldWideWeb’ browser which you can run inside your current browser. Visit worldwideweb.cern.ch to travel back in time and try it out. Today, the world wide web is arguably more powerful and valuable than ever. With its infinite functionality and continuous development, it’s becoming increasingly difficult for business owners to navigate the web to the best of their ability. At Online Innovations, our team of web experts stay au fait with the latest web updates and trends so that you don’t have to. Speak to us today about a comprehensive web strategy for your business – from your website or online store through to your online advertising and social media marketing campaigns. Contact Bronwen on 041 365 4919, at sales@onlineinnovations.com or visit www.onlineinnovations.com to find out more on our diverse range of services. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 