 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Council Meeting on Thursday got to another dramatic start as opposition parties protested at the presence of African Natinal Congress (ANC) Councillor, Bongo Nombiba, who is a convicted fraudster and apparently had a warrant of arrest issued against him last week. The Council Meeting is set to hear another attempt by the Patriotic Alliance (PA) to remove Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani. The motion was submitted by Patriotic Alliance (PA) Councillor Marlon Daniels and was supported by African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) councillor, Lance Grootboom. The Democratic Alliance (DA), which has also lately been after Bobani, is also expected to support the motion. However, as Council business began, the presence of Nombiba, who was convicted last year of defrauding a local NGO, caused bickering between Councillors. Nombiba was found guilty of fraud and money laundering on the 9th of March 2018 and sentenced to seven years imprisonment - of which three years was suspended to five years. On the 26th of April, Nombiba was sentenced to five years direct imprisonment. On the 4th of June, he applied for leave to appeal, which was denied on the day. He didn’t give up. On the 11th of April, he submitted his petition for leave to appeal in the Division of the High Court. On the 4th of June, Nombiba was granted bail of R2 000 pending a petition to appeal both his convction and five-year sentence for fraud and money laundering. On the 2nd of August, his petition for leave to appeal was denied by the Grahamstown High Court. He then proceed to petition the Supreme Cour of Appeals (SCA), which also failed leading to the warrant of arrest. "A warrant of arrest has been issued. His leave to appeal has been refused. What we do know there’s a warrant. He’s sitting in this chamber illegally," charged Grootboom. However, it emerged in the Council Meeting that the warrant of arrest had been cancelled pending Nombiba's application for leave to appeal at the Constitutional Court. "I, as the Speaker, have received a copy of leave to appeal at the Constitutional Court and I’ve received letter that Nombiba warrant has been withdrawn," Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Speaker, Buyelwa Mafaya, told Councillors. The withdrawal of the warrant has since been confirmed by the Hawks. Bongo Nombiba's presence at the last Council Meeting caused chaos in the Chambers. Meanwhile, the DA also introduced a new Councillor, Lutho Sokudela, to replace Renaldo Gouws, who won the recent Ward 2 by-election. Sokudela's presence once caused chaos in the Council Chambers when the DA brought him in as a replacement for its rogue Councillor, Victor Manyathi, who is credited for the ousting the then DA-led coalition government in the Nelson Mandela Bay. At the time of publishing, Speaker Mafaya had adjourned the Council Meeting due to the chaos over Nombiba's presence. Councillors are still also expected to debate a motion of not confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, brought by Patriotic Alliance (PA) councillor, Marlon Daniels. More on the council meeting to follow… Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 