 Port Elizabeth – With another fuel price increase for May 2019, who is not looking for ways to save petrol? If you need fuel saving advice, this article will share some handy tips on how to save fuel in your car. The great thing about these tips is that they do not require going to the mechanic and getting a fuel saving device installed on your car. According to the Automobile Association (AA) of South Africa, fuel economy tips will have to start with a well-maintained car. A well-maintained car actually uses between 10 and 20% less fuel than an improperly maintained vehicle. So, it is important that the driver pays attention to often small things like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, to well regular car service. Addressing fuel economy and fuel consumption in your vehicle will mean the difference to your pocket. The smart guys at the AA have compiled a list of nine ways to save on your fuel consumption, which have also added upon. So here is how to save petrol and diesel in your car - some of these tips address how to save petrol on a bike. Stick to the speed limits Speeding is not only dangerous but also negatively affects your fuel consumption. By driving at 110 km/h instead of 120km/h, you can save on your petrol bill in the long run. Don’t accelerate harshly Harsh acceleration contributes to higher fuel consumption. Rather look at pulling away from robots or stop streets slowly and gradually. Don’t overwork your engine by driving at too high revs, and if you drive an automatic car, accelerate on a light throttle for early gear changes. Keep your eyes on the road By keeping your eyes on the road, and keeping a safe following distance, you can travel at a more constant speed, and avoid harsh braking. By slowing down gradually for changing robots, or stationary traffic, it’s more economical for you and your car. Make momentum work for you Save some fuel by making your car’s momentum work for you. Build up speed before an uphill stretch, and when you crest a hill, take your foot off the accelerator pedal and use your car’s momentum to get you over. Don’t use your aircon too much We know South African summers can be brutal, and even though using an aircon is more fuel efficient than driving with your windows down, it still increases fuel consumption. By using your aircon more judiciously, you can save fuel when driving. Don’t overload your car This may seem obvious, but overloading your car makes the engine work harder, using more fuel in the process. Pack lightly, and remember to remove unused heavy items like bike racks,  or roof racks from your car when not in use. Try to reduce idling time We know, how is this even possible with our current traffic? But wherever you can, try to not let your car idle for more than 30 seconds - rather switch it off. Also, try to avoid peak hour traffic where you can to save on your fuel consumption. Avoid short trips Trips of two kilometres or less use more fuel than longer trips. Even more so if your car’s engine is cold. Try not to make unnecessary trips to reduce your fuel bills. By making some of these small changes, you will be able to save on your fuel costs and keep your car running more efficiently. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 