 The Nelson Mandela University on Wednesday night said that bush fire that had raged through parts of its South Campus and in the surrounding veld on Wednesday afternoon, had been brought under control. The university on in the afternoon evacuated staff and students were evacuated out of South Campus as a precautionary measure. It said the fire had spread over onto the university's nature reserve fanned by strong winds. Spokesperson, Zandile Mbabela, said that Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality firefighters and emergency personnel, working with a Mandela University team, worked tirelessly in an effort to contain the fire that broke out in the vicinity of the Noordhoek Ski Boat Club, near the university on Tuesday night. However, on Wednesday night staff and students were able to return to South Campus after the firefighters managed to control the fire. Mbabela said that the firefighters remained on campus throughout the night to monitor the situation. "Following an assessment of the intensity of the smoke in the South Campus residences, it was found safe for students to return. "Residence managers will be on high alert should the present situation change, with Protection Services staff to assist in monitoring the situation during their overnight patrols," she described. Meanwhile, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality said that due to the decrease in wind speed and change in wind direction," our firefighting plans had to be altered". Pine Lodge evacuated due to raging Port Elizabeth bush fire  "As our teams awaited the raging fire approaching SANCCOB Penguin Rescue Station and doused the thatched roof of the facility, we did not follow through with our evacuation plan as the wind direction changed," the municipality added. "The wind is now blowing once again in the direction of Pine Lodge with the fire approximately one kilometre away from this facility. "Due to the fire progressing slower, only partial evacuation of Pine Lodge took place. Our teams will be monitoring the fire throughout the night." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 