 The African National Congress (ANC) Youth League in the Nelson Mandela Bay has blamed the current Eastern Cape ANC Youth League provincial task team (PTT) for failing to bring Eastern Cape youth under the ANC. This followed the first 2019 meeting of the ANC Youth League Nelson Mandela Bay Regional Executive Committee (REC) on Thursday last week at the party’s Florence Matomela House in Port Elizabeth. In a statement, ANCYL Regional Spokesperson, Siviwe Ngaba, highlighted the need to boost the party’s membership in the Nelson Mandela Bay at branch level as among the issues discussed. Ngaba highlighted the importance of the youth as it represents   the “the biggest constituency that is geared up to vote in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections” while also noting that there is a lot of work that needs to be done in the Nelson Mandela Bay region by the ANCYL. The meeting also blamed the current Eastern Cape ANC Youth League provincial task team for failing to ensure that there is an effective provincial structure. “The ANCYL in the Eastern Cape does not have an effective provincial structure, which has led to a loss of a significant amount of political influence by the youth,” he said. “This is caused by the inability of the PTT to position itself beyond populist slogans and revolutionary sounding phrases. “The meeting also agreed that the PTT is unreservedly entrenched in factional politics and that this was a result of having old idea-less people leading a youth organisation. “Our biggest concern is that the ANCYL PTT will not be able to effectively and efficiently coordinate regions towards the election period.” Nqaba added; “This leaves the biggest constituency in the Eastern Cape without a credible political leadership that will provide them with a clear direction and lobby the youth behind the banner of the African National Congress.” However, Ngaba said that the ANCYL REC is pleased by the recent developments that have seen the ANC regional office - Florence Matomela House, and all ANC constituency offices around the Nelson Mandela Metro, being re-opened. “The ANCYL would like to reiterate the view that the ANC does not exist for itself, but for the masses of our people. “Those, who are charged with the responsibility of leading the structures of the ANC must always be cognisant of this fact. “The ANCYL is making a clarion call to the broader ANC community to assist the glorious movement in renewing itself,” he described. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 