 Scores of Nelson Mandela Bay-based Small, Medium and Micro-sized Enterprises (SMME) owners gathered at the Port Elizabeth City Hall on Tuesday following the fatal shooting of 38-year-old businessman, Baba Ningi, who was the Nelson Mandela Bay's Black Business Caucus co-ordinator. Ningi was shot dead on Monday just outside the Lifa and Mafa Butchery in Zwide, Port Elizabeth. Mystery still surrounds what led to Ningi's murder. He had apparently fallen out with other business-owners after a photo of him and a young woman (apparently his daughter) carrying large sums of money made rounds on social media at a time when some Nelson Mandela Bay SMMEs alleged that they were struggling after not being paid. Some SMME owners claimed that Ningi and another Black Business Caucus coordinator, Lithemba Singaphi, had paid themselves millions of Rand meant for them. Ningi denied the allegations and said that what was circulated was an old photo. It is alleged that Ningi was killed following an argument inside the butchery. As he walked to his car, gunmen opened fire on him. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, accompanied by his mayoral committee members, the Speaker of the Council and the Deputy Mayor, met with the SMMes in front of the City Hall where he urged for calm and peace. He also appealed to the distraught SMME owners to not forget their goal - which is to emerge as business people. "Let's say what has happened happened, but that will not make us to stop being business people," Bobani said while the crowd chanted. He acknowledged them for not taking the law into their hands, but instead for going to the deceased's house to offer condolences. "We don't know what the reason for Ningi's death, but some are saying that it is because of the Metro's drains project while the police have not come with a report to us," Bobani said. "We as the government are not apologetic for giving you the drain project. "We owe it to you and those that criticizing the project - they must go and see for themselves the work that you have done." Bobani said that all the contractors that were working on the project of cleaning drains will be given their 30% as promised. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 