 A 52-year-old man from Motherwell, in Port Elizabeth, died following a brutal attack by an angry mob over an alleged rape that was later discovered to not have happened. Allegations were that Mava Fundakubi had raped a 7-year-old girl. He was severely assaulted by a mob along De Vos Crescent, in the township's Shukushukuma area. Only later -  and when it was too late, was it established that the deceased did not rape the 7-year-old. Allegations are that the father of the 7-year-old assaulted Fundakubi before handing him over to angry residents. However, when the South African Police Service (SAPS) investigated the matter, they found out that the girl had not been raped. Police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, said that the 36-year-old father of the 7-year-old girl handed himself over to police on Tuesday. Captain Beetge said that the he claimed that he fetched Fundakubi at his house and that he assaulted Fundakubi in the street while being joined by other persons. "He was arrested and charged for the murder while police are continuing to identify and search for the accomplices," Captain Beetge described. The Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, has repeated his warning to the community that vigilantism or mob justice will not be tolerated by the police. "An innocent man was killed by community based on a rumour and did not even wait to verify the truth of it. "We are urging our communities to give information of suspected crimes to the police and not to take the law into their own hands. The persons involved were killers and the police and the law will treat them as killers," he said. "I am urging our community to identify these killers in order for the law to be enforced and these murderers to be brought before court." General Rabie also added that communities should form closer ties with their Community Police Forums (CPF). "Our community leaders, our local councillors and religious leaders are the influencers on community ground levels. We are urging these leaders to play their part in leading and influencing the community not to take the law into their own hands but to work closer with the police." Image: Mava Fundakubi Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 