 One of the largest providers of in-port logistics in South Africa, Bidfreight Port Operations, and Transnet National Port Authorities on Monday officially announced a partnership that will see Bidfreight operating a Multi-Purpose Terminal at Sheds 10 and 11 in the Port of Port Elizabeth. The agreement will see Bidfreight Port Operations design, develop, finance, construct, operate, maintain and transfer the Multi-Purpose Terminal at Sheds 10 and 11 over the next ten years. Bidfreight Port Operations becomes the third Terminal Operator at the Port Elizabeth Multi-Purpose Terminal. The agreement was concluded towards the end of 2018 and the refurbishment of Sheds 10 and 11 started in November 2018. The facility is expected to be fully-operational by September 2019. “We are extremely excited that the agreement with BPO has been concluded and that we can welcome a world-class independent operator to the Port of Port Elizabeth,” said Nozipho Mdawe, Chief Operating Officer of TNPA. Mdawe added that the development would optimise the use of Sheds 10 and 11, and give the port an edge in the competition for import and export cargo for Southern Africa. She said that she hoped the “marriage” with Bidfreight - as she called it, would last “for as long as a marriage should last”. The Managing Director of Bidfreight Port Operations, Jannie Roux, said that they saw the assembly plant and the ability the Nelson Mandela Bay has in making things happen as one of the reason why they decided to enter into partnership with Transnet. He added that they want to be around when things start to happen in the province. “The Eastern Cape has a massive tourism potential, also it is much beautiful than the Western Cape and it is beautiful than Limpopo,” Roux said. Speaking to the media, Roux was uncertain about the exact number of job opportunities for the people of the Eastern Cape, but estimated “not more than 30 jobs in the next 10 years.” He also was not sure of the criteria that will be used to employ people, but said that at least 10 people should come from the province's  rural areas. “As people we are currently sitting at 1.6 million of people who are looking for jobs," Mdawe added. "As Transnet and BPO, we must provide those much needed jobs by providing vehicles to develop skills and making sure that who ever gets experience here can be accommodated here." Image (from left to right): Transnet National Ports Authority Chief Operating Officer Nozipho Mdawe, and Bidfreight Port Operations(BPO) Managing Director Jannie Roux Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 