 For the first time in history, the famous Ocean Dream passenger liner known as the Peace Boat, docked in the Port Elizabeth harbour on Wednesday. They were officially welcomed by a water ballet and traditional dancers. The Peace Boat will be docked in the harbour for three whole days while the crew and over 1000 passengers explore Nelson Mandela Bay. The Peace Boats 35 year mission While the Peace Boat looks like any other cruise liner, it has a mission of its own that has been going on for 35 years. Instead of the passengers going on the cruise for a vacation, they in fact are participants in its mission to contribute in community projects in the places they visit. A Peace Boat voyage is a life-changing experience, harnessing the talent of staff and participants alike to create an environment where people can live and learn together, while undertaking socially responsible travel to some of the most fascinating regions on earth. Most participants are from Japan, but many are from China, Singapore and Korea. Peace Boat welcomed to Nelson Mandela Bay An intimate ceremony was held on board the vessel where the Deputy Mayor, Cllr. Thsonono Buyeye and the Port Manager, Rajesh Dana. Captain Viktor Alymov (captain of the Ocean Dream) exchanged plaques with TNPA Pilot, Andrew Ker Fox.  “This is a significant occasion as it does not only mark the 100th Peace Boat global voyage for peace and Peace Boat’s 35th anniversary, but her visit is also symbolic to Nelson Mandela Bay – named after South Africa’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, president Nelson Mandela,” said Rajesh Dana, Port Manager, Transnet National Ports Authority. “The Port of PE shares Peace Boat’s aspirations of fostering peace, human rights, environmental protection and sustainable development. The vessel’s 3-day port visit will allow the crew and passengers more time on our shores, supporting the potential establishment of a dedicated cruise liner terminal in the Port of PE.” During each voyage Peace Boat organises a range of educational activities, including conferences by guest educators, workshops, lectures, language classes and cultural programmes. The themes of these activities link Peace Boat’s fields of work with contemporary issues in the countries they visit, connecting participants with people around the world. On 26 December 2018 the Ocean Dream departed from the Port of Yokohama in Japan, starting its 100th Peace Boat global voyage for peace. This voyage of almost 100 days covers a southern hemisphere route, docking in 19 ports around Asia, Africa and South America. It will return to Japan on 31 March 2019, after visiting 13 countries.  