 Valentine’s Day is coming up and half-hearted marketing campaigns just won’t work in an increasingly competitive business environment. Here are six Valentine’s Day marketing ideas that'll help your small business win over the hearts of its customers. Even if your business doesn’t specialise in flowers or fancy dinners, you can still share in the spirit of love this Valentine's Day. One of the easiest ways to do so is to add a touch of romanticism to your social media pages. For example, upload a unique cover photo and profile picture, and share a series of Valentine-themed visuals and posts in the lead up to Valentine’s Day. Also keep relevant seasonal hashtags in mind as these are a simple yet effective way to increase your reach. Ask topical questions to spark engagement with your followers, run polls to discover what they love most or post heartfelt quotes and gift ideas to inspire them. You could also prepare a Valentine’s Day gift guide with ideas that cater to different budgets, recipients and interests. This is especially beneficial for online stores as you’ll get to promote some of your own products and link back to their respective product pages. It’s always a good idea to run an enticing Valentine’s Day promotion. “Two-for-one” deals work well this time of the year, as do free gifts with every sale. Businesses can also offer gift packages with two or more products at a lower combined price. This eliminates a ton of guesswork for customers in terms of picking products that pair well together. Making shoppers’ lives easier is key to moving more stock in less time. Social media competitions are a fantastic, affordable way to increase brand awareness and engagement. Keep the entry criteria simple and offer up a Valentine-themed prize. For example, ask your followers to share their own love story or a selfie with their loved one using a competition-specific hashtag. The prize needn’t only be your products or services. It could also be something your customers would enjoy, like a dinner voucher or weekend getaway for two. Valentine’s Day is the perfect occasion to show how much you care for the local community. Think of a unique way to get your social media followers involved in your plans to pay it forward, or donate a percentage of each sale to a local NGO in need. While your social responsibility initiatives should always come straight from the heart, they also help to build brand awareness and consumer support. What better time to express your appreciation than on Valentine’s Day? Because businesses often do the year-end gift run, you can stand out by doing it now instead. One simple example is to surprise your walk-in customers with a small chocolate and thoughtful note on Valentine’s Day. You could also send virtual Valentine’s cards to your email subscribers and include a special offer like free shipping. Your marketing campaign needn’t only be directed at couples. Valentine’s Day is also a great time to promote self-love and to celebrate the bond between family and friends. Beauty spas can keep their single customers in mind by offering special pamper packages for singles or friends who come in together. Retailers can also encourage single shoppers to treat themselves to that item they’ve been eyeing out. Need help with creating social media marketing campaigns for special days like Valentine’s Day? The Online Innovations team would love to chat with you about a winning strategy. We are based in Port Elizabeth and have over 18 years of experience in providing digital marketing solutions for businesses across South Africa. Give us a call on 041 365 4919, send a mail to sales@onlineinnovations.com or visit our website at www.onlineinnovations.com for more info on our social media services. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 