 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, has been given seven days to conduct a meeting with shack-dwellers in the Metro to discuss service delivery matters. A group  of shack-dwellers on Thursday interrupted a special Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Meeting and demanded to enter the Council Chambers so that they can speak to the executive mayor. The meeting itself descended into chaos as the Democratic Alliance (DA) demanded its rogue Councillors - Trevor Louw and Neville Higgins, be removed from the Chamber. However, Mayor Bobani made it easy for them and met them outside the Chambers where they were given a chance to express their concerns as he and the African National Congress' (ANC) Andile Lungisa listened. Before becoming Executive Mayor, Bobani once made several promises to residents - including ensuring the provision of proper housing, should he replace then Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip. When he got into office, together with his Mayoral Committee, he again promised to provide clean water and electricity for the shack-dwellers. However, the promises seem to be taking long for impatient residents, who have spent years waiting for the Metro to address their needs. Addressing the Mayor, the residents demanded something tangible in case Bobani fails to honour the promised meeting. The Mayor promised to write an email or print out a letter of promise as proof that he would abide by his promise. Still, the residents said that they want something, which clearly states when electricity and water will be installed etc. "Should you not do that then we will show you, who we are," one woman promised the Mayor. Another man agreed, adding; "Land is a need in Port Elizabeth because we are tired of living like fish in a tin." But Bobani promised; "We will come to you, but before we do that, we must meet the officials and discuss financial matters because we are trying to avoid coming to you to make impossible promises. "Let's stop fighting and focus on service delivery without arguing about political party differences." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 