 Mthatha - The Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC) is advising all its legal tenants at its residential and commercial properties that it only collects rental through a debit order system and per speed point at the ECDC offices and direct deposit into ECDC’s bank account at the bank as agreed with its tenants. This advisory comes after the Corporation was made aware that there are attempts to collect rental from both legal tenants and evict illegal invaders of ECDC properties by some groups of individuals and / or organisations following their own processes. ECDC is currently engaged in a legal process which is aimed at evicting illegal occupants who have either invaded the properties or those that are illegally subletting from existing tenants or properties that are occupied without a valid lease agreement. Civil and criminal charges have been opened with the law enforcement agencies to deal with these acts of criminality, with investigations currently at an advanced stage. “ECDC advises its tenants that it only collects rent via debit order, speed point and direct deposit. Tenants are advised to reject any attempt to collect rental in cash whether by an ECDC official or by individuals or groups purporting to act on behalf of the Corporation. Legal occupants should contact ECDC whenever they are in doubt about the authenticity of those purporting to act on its behalf “In addition, ECDC will never evict a tenant through an illegal process. Therefore, legitimate tenants are advised to contact ECDC if they are under threat of eviction from any individual or group. ECDC will only carry out evictions through the sheriff of the court once a court order has been granted,” says chief executive officer, Ndzondelelo Dlulane. Dlulane says a recent court ruling in ECDC’s favour reaffirmed that if an eviction order has been issued against an ECDC tenant for arrear rental, regardless if the premises have been occupied by an illegal sub-tenant and such illegal sub-tenant are up to date with its payments to its own “landlord”, then such illegal sub-tenant has no legal recourse against ECDC for damages incurred as a result of an eviction. Tenants are advised to phone the ECDC Customer Care Line – 087 049 3835 in order to verify if their payments are allocated against their account or alternatively tenants or members of the public are urged to make use of the ECDC’s Anonymous Fraud Hotline – 080 0116 655 if they suspect any fraudulent activity. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 