 Peddie - Peddie police are investigating inquest, murder and rape dockets after two bodies of a male and female were found buried in shallow graves not far from the roadside on different days in different villages in Peddie. "The female body was discovered at Lower Qeto A/A in Peddie by a 61-year-old community member, who alleged that on Tuesday, he was walking with his dogs through nearby bushes at about 13h30 when his dogs displayed interest in something by the roadside," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "It is further alleged that he then decided to follow the dogs to investigate as also on the previous day, they displayed a similar behavioural pattern. "To his surprise, he saw a skull of human being with dislocated jaws lying on the ground. "On checking further, he saw a shallow grave covered with soil, stones and branches. "He then called the police, who arrived and took over the scene." Capt Tonjeni said that the body was removed from the grave and it was established that it was a female body, aged between 30-35 years, fully dressed in blue jean trouser, black tight,white T shirt, white spencer, red track top (written champion infront) and brown half boot shoes. "Although the body was in the early stage of decomposition police also discovered that the female was also raped," he added. "Police have opened inquest, murder and rape cases. "The charge of inquest in the death of the female body may be changed to murder if evidence to that effect is established." This female body discovered is a second one to be found in Peddie in a short time after a male body that was found burried by the roadside at Gcinisa village, Peddie (near Mambalwini and Mqwashwini) over the weekend. "The body had visible wounds on the upper body and dressed in a Black leather jacket and maroon pants. He also had a brown Stratchan hat and white flip flops on his feet. "His hairstyle is long dreadlocks and on his right hand, three of his fingers had rings on," described Capt Tonjeni. "No one has come foward to identify the body or reported a case of missing persons. "The possibility of a link between the two incidents is also part of the investigation." The Peddie police have tried to enquire from nearby villages, but in vain. "There is a possibility that maybe the victims are not from Peddie, they come from somewhere else investigation continues," Capt Tonjeni said. "Peddie SAPS are looking for family, friends, relatives or next of kin of the deceased couple. Any family missing a man or woman fitting this description are requested to please contact WO Mkululi Manisi -082 3019 713 or Peddie Detectives-040 673 3311. All correspondence will be treated with strictest confidence." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 