 East London - Two men were certified dead after police arrived at a gruesome scene and found two bodies lying in a pool of blood at Geluksdal farm, Gonubie in East London on Saturday morning. "It is alleged that the farm owner, a 45-years-old male was with his friend and his wife and two children as the friend resided temporarily with the farm owner on his farm," said police spokesperson, Captain Hazel Mqala. "They were socializing together in the early hours of Saturday morning when an argument came up. "The argument escalated into a physical fight, which moved outside the house onto the deck. The farm owner assaulted this 40-year-old male friend with his fists and a rifle butt resulting in the victim sustaining severe head injuries. "When the police arrived they found him lying on his back with numerous head injuries and already dead." Capt Mqala said that numerous phone calls were made by the farm owner requesting help from neighbouring farmers, who in turn notified Bluewater and Gonubie SAPS. "W/O Odendaal from Bluewater SAPS responded and was the first person to arrive at the the scene. He entered the residence and the farm owner allegedly said to him that 'nobody is going to leave the farm premises today'. At that stage, the farm owner had taken the friends' children hostage and locked them in the bathroom," she added. "He then requested the mother to return to the house as she was hiding outside fearing for her life. "Cst Bam from Gonubie SAPS also arrived at the scene. It is alledged that the farm owner then locked the door and instructed the police to place their firearms on the table. They did not comply with his instruction." W/O Odendaal interviewied the farm owner while Cst Bam went to the bathroom where he found the two boys aged two weeks and another one aged two years old hidden in the bath. "Cst Bam rescued both children out of the house and handed them over to the mother. "While Cst Bam was outside the farm house, the owner locked the door and attacked W/O Odendaal from behind with fists and attempted to disarm W/O Odendaal," Capt Mqala added. "During the struggle one shot went off and hit the floor. W/O Odendaal forced the farm owner away from him, but he tried to attack W/O Odendaal again. "W/O Odendaal warned him, but without hesitation he attacked again. W/O Odendaal fired one shot from his firearm in self defense and during struggle the bullet from his service pistol entered underneath the left arm and fatally wounded the attacker." Capt Mqala said that W/O Odendaal was also injured as follows - a fructured nose, jaw and face. "He is currently receiving medical attention. "All necessary roleplayers including IPID were summoned to the crime scene and the paramedics declared the farmer and his friend both dead," she said. "Fire arms and lot of ammunition including a police flag was confiscated from the scene and booked at Gonubie Police Station." East London Station Commander Brigadier Mxolisi Mqotyana commended the members for their bravery for savings three innocent lives and by also ensuring their safety by acting swiftly in such an incident of a hostage. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 