 Tsomo - Police in Tsomo have appealed to the public for assistance with information that can help them find three missing family members. According to police spokesperson, Capt Namhla Mdleleni, it is believed the family went missing between Sunday night and Monday morning. She said that according to police information, two young girls, aged 16 and 17, were living with their grandmother, aged 71, who also disappeared with the two sisters. "The incident occurred at Lower Tsojana Administrative Area in Tsomo," Capt Mdleleni said. "Reports from the 19-year-old sister, who has not been living with them, suggests that the two missing sisters were being raped over time by their uncle. "This included herself until one of them fell pregnant. "She then reported the matter to the police and a case of rape was registered." Capt Mdleleni said that on the day of the missing family, the police had earlier visited the family as part of the investigation after rape allegations were reported. "It is alleged that after the police left, the uncle arrived and began questioning the family on what the police were looking for. That was the last time both the family and the uncle were seen." Capt Mdleleni sad that the 40-year-old uncle has since been arrested in connection with the disappearance of the three family member. "Search for the grandmother together with her grand children is still underway in the villages of Tsomo and surrounding communities. A case of kidnapping has been registered for investigation," she added. "The police are requesting anyone with information that could lead to the family being found, to please contact the nearest police station or call the Crime Stop number on 0860010111." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 