 Mthatha - The R61 - the road connecting Mthatha, Engcobo, Tsomo and Cofimvaba, may be the most dangerous road in the Eastern Cape, but from Thursday, the Eastern Cape government says that will soon change for the better. This was the message shared by the Premier of the Eastern Cape, Oscar Mabuyane, who presented the Provincial government's intergrated approach to deliver road safety service to the people of this province. The plan was unveiled during the official launch of 2019 Safer Festive Season Road Campaign that was held on the R61 road at the Ngcobo Vehicle Testing Centre on Thursday. This launch was attended by Premier Oscar Mabuyane, MEC Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe and SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. "A considerable number of buses, trucks and vehicles were taken to a vehicle testing centre to ascertain their roadworthiness," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "During the road block that began at 6 am on Thursday, 347 vehicles were checked for compliance to road rules. "A total of 2 238 vehicles passed through Traffic Law Enforcement System that specialises in screening vehicle operator license, drivers license, motor vehicle license and payment of traffic fines. "Three new vehicles that have these essential role were unveiled and officially handed to Provincial Traffic Services." He added that the launch was also attended by distinguished guests from national Department of Transport, who came to offer support and share expertise. "This multi disciplinary road block is a collaboration between Provincial Traffic, SAPS, Home Affairs: Immigration Services. It is a force multiplyer bringing in resources and expertise from the different government departments." Pamphlets were also distributed to passing motorists to warn them about road safety. Thirteen vehicles were found to be unroadworthy and taken off the road. Fifty five vehicles were issued with fines to the value of R23 700. Thirty-seven vehicles that had outstanding warrants of arrest paid fines to the value of R30 000. Six illegal immigrants were arrested for not having proper documents to be in the country. Addresing the parade, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga said, "we want to see multi discipline roadblocks in order to maximise efficiency. "We will be bringing resources. Today we are here to show the Mec that she has a force." She used this moment to plead with the troops not to be motivated by money alone. She said the urge to help fellow citizens and a deep sense of patriotism should be the key drive that motivates them to do their work during the festive season and beyond. "We are patriots that will work harder to ensure the safety of our province, our people and their properties. We want to record the lowest inidents and fatalities in Eastern Cape this year and your dedication and commitment will help us and go a long way to assist us achieve that goal and noble objective," said the Commissioner. MEC Weziwe Tikana Gxothiwe encouraged the intergrated multi disciplinary approach saying "we know when we work better we can do more". She asked the members to be diligent, impartial and professional. "Show no mercy and pity for road rule offenders. Protect the intergrity of our government and your families. You will be tested in different ways by inebriated drivers and non compliant motorists;, maintain your composure and professional conduct. Through this intergrated multi disciplinary approach we aim to minimise road fatalities drastically in our Province," the MEC said. Similar multi-disciplinary operations and road blocks will be conducted all over the province to ensure safety of motorists and commuters. "Motorist are requested to be patient during the execution of these interventions as all is done to ensure theur safety and that they arrive at their destinations alive." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 