 Port Elizabeth - As the country marks the end of the campaign of 16 days of activism of no violence against women and children, the Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, on Tuesday welcomed the lengthy sentences handed down to sexual offenders in Port Elizabeth. "The South African Police Service is committed to ensuring the safety and wellbeing of women and children through an integrated multidisciplinary approach," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "During the month of November and December 2019, the Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit in Port Elizabeth have sent a total of nine sexual offenders to prison for their respective crimes (rape – 10 years; sexual assault- 4 years; rape -10 years; rape and kidnapping – life imprisonment and 2 years; robbery and rape – 25 years, attempted rape – 8 years; sexual assault – 5 years, rape and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm – 13 years and the latest sentence of rape x 3 – life imprisonment)." She added that the latest sentence of three life terms was handed down to a 40-year-old accused on 4 December 2019 in the Port Elizabeth Regional court. "Between August and September 2017, the 14-year-old victim from Gelvandale was repeatedly raped by a relative," said Col Naidu. "The accused was arrested in December 2017 and after several court appearances, he was granted bail. "In September 2019, he was found guilty of rape and on 4 December, he was sentenced to three life terms in prison. "The sentences will run concurrently." Lt Gen Ntshinga added that, "crimes against women and children is a violation of their human rights therefore every effort must be made by the SAPS to arrest, convict and sentence those responsible. "Even though the campaign against gender based violence is at an end, the advocating of awareness and protection of our women and children against gender based violence must continue 365 days a year. "There is no time to waste time and I urge every woman and child to raise their voices and be heard – it’s time to break the silence. Sentences such as these is a clear indication that sexual predators will not get away with their manipulation and domination of the vulnerable." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 