 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, who had been under pressure to resign, was on Thursday finally booted out through a motion of no confidence. It appeared the opposition parties - the Democratic Alliance, the Congress of the People and the African Christian Democratic Movement, finally manged to the nod - and the vote, from the African National Congress, the Economic Freedom Fighters and the other smaller parties that made up Bobani's coalition government, to have him removed at a Council Meeting on Thursday morning. Bobani had survived several motions of no confidence brought against him since he became Mayor in August 2018 following dramatic events that saw the then DA-led coalition government booted out of office. To some extent, he had had his revenge following his humiliation by the DA's Athol Trollip, who was Mayor, from the Health portfolio amid allegations that he had abused funds. He was subsequently, removed as Trollip's Deputy Mayor altogether. Almost immediately, he went to work to try and oust Trollip through various motions. He finally succeeded in August 2018 - nearly a year after his ousting as Deputy Mayor. Since his party, the United Democratic Movement (UDM) only has two seats in the 120-seat Council, Bobani entered into a coalition dominated by the ANC. However, his Mayoral term was stained by allegations of poor service delivery, mismanagement and corruption from opposition parties and even from the parties in his coalition. Opposition parties tried and failed to have him removed as Mayor. Things had become so bad that in November, the Eastern Cape Provincial Government announced it had decided to place the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality under administration. The last two motions of no confidence against Bobani failed following reports that Councillors were being threatened with their lives should they vote to remove him. Speaking ahead of the Council Meeting on Thursday, Bobani was in his usual confident mood. He said the motion of confidence would fall away like the many previous ones he had faced. He previously told reporters at the last failed attempt to remove him that he would be Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor until 2021. However, perhaps unbeknown to him, parties in his coalition and opposition parties had met on Wednesday and agreed to remove him. When DA councillor, Morne Steyn, tabled the motion against Bobani, the majority of the parties present - the DA, COPE, AIC, ANC, Patriotic Alliance, ACDP, supported his ousting. Given their majority say in the Council Chamber, there was no way he was going to survive... Bobani had dissolved his Mayoral Committee shortly before the vote to oust him - except for Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality deputy Executive Mayor, Thsonono Buyeye. Buyeye was appointed by Council. The Council Meeting is currently on a break... Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 