 East London - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Monday condemned the alleged assault that reportedly took place at the drive-through of a fast food outlet in the wee hours of the morning between one of the employees of the Premier’s private office, Mr Luntu Sokutu, and a young woman. "We view this as a very unfortunate incident that is alleged to have happened and we have since been alerted that the matter is under police control," Mabuyane said. "We appeal to the public to give space to that investigations. "As the Office of the Premier, we will conduct our internal investigation to solicit all necessary facts around these allegations to help us arrive at an appropriate decision. "As the Premier I take these allegations seriously and I am looking into the matter to get factual account of what transpired. I commit that this is one matter I cannot bury my head in the sand on because issues of gender based violence are a pandemic in the country." Mabuyane said that while investigations are conducted, he has taken a decision to give Mr Sokutu a leave of absence until the investigations are concluded on the matter. "When I have concluded the internal investigation and hopefully when the SAPS would have at least established the factual account of this matter, a decision will be communicated on the matter at issue," he added. "As the Premier of this province I am committed to the campaign against Gender Based Violence as mandated by the President and I condemn all forms of gender based violence wherever they are seen to be showing their ugly head." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 