 Uitenhage - Swift response by KwaNobuhle police resulted in the death of one of a robbery suspect and recovery of stolen liquor valued around R35 000. This is after five armed men targeted a tavern in KwaNobuhle, Uitenhage on Tuesday. "On Tuesday, at around 8:30am, it is alleged that five men, one of them armed with a firearm stormed into a tavern in Ponana Tini Road, KwaNobuhle (Uitenhage)," said police spokesperson, Sgt Majola Nkohli. "One of the suspects with a firearm held the assistant at gunpoint, while others ransacked the tavern. "The suspects made off with undisclosed amount of cash, a television set and liquor - mostly cases of whisky." Sgt Nkohli said that the suspects left the scene in a Nissan bakkie with known registration number plates. "Immediately, a complainant alerted the police and a description of the getaway vehicle was circulated in all police communication radio channels." Moments later, the Uitenhage K9 members spotted a vehicle fitting the description travelling on the old Uitenhage Road at high-speed and gave chase. "A chase continued up until the Govan Mbeki area (Ezinyoka) in Port Elizabeth, where a driver of a getaway vehicle lost control and it overturned at Goniwe Street," Sgt Nkohli said. "One of the suspects died at the scene, while the others managed to flee in between the houses. "Police recovered liquor valued R35 000 (some damaged) and also confiscated the getaway vehicle." He said that a case of business robbery is under investigation and police are urging anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of other suspects to contact the investigating officer, Detective Captain Tommy Whitebooi at 082 441 8129. "The information may also be shared via Crime Stop 08600 10111. All information is strictly anonymous and confidential." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 