 East London - The African Transformation Movement (ATM) in the Eastern Cape objected to what it called the 'thoughtless, irresponsible and careless' appointment of Ms Siphokazi Ndudane, as HOD of the Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (DRDAR) in the Eastern Cape. "Ms Ndudane, who was an employee of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, was charged with 39 charges, including 155 counts of fraud, 37 counts of theft, extortion, forgery, insubordination, defeating the ends of Justice and contravening section 217(1)of the constitution of the Republic, act 108 of 1996," said ATM Eastern Cape Head of Communication, Zama Ntshona. "In a letter dated 29th November 2019, she was found guilty following a 5 day hearing, from the 25th – 29th November 2019. "The Chairperson found her guilty of stealing three tons of Abalone to the value of R7 000 000-00 from the department’s store in Paarden Island, between December 2017 and Jan 2018." Ntshona said that the African Transformation Movement - ATM sees this appointment of Ms Ndudane under the watchful eye of the ANC-led government, "as a treacherous act that exhibits once again that the ANC is not serious about the eradication of corruption in our society". "Once again we see total disregard of the will of the people and recklessness with tax payer’s money," he said. "The ATM has signed a contract with the voters of this country and vowed to fight all acts of deceit which seek to undermine the rule of law and the Constitution, the supreme law of this country. "ATM calls for the immediate rescinding of the appointment of Ms S. Ndudane as HOD of the Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform in the Province of the Eastern Cape." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 