 Makana - The Makana Local Municipality on Wednesday advised residents and businesses that it might have to cut water supply on Saturday so that everyone has water over the Christmas week. "Please note that although there hasn't been any load shedding this week, the effects of it can still be felt as we are still trying to balance the system," the municipality said. "With that in mind, please note that there will be interruptions to water supply, especially in the high lying areas. "It must also be taken into consideration that we are currently only supplying water to the whole town from the Eastern side, and therefore the people on the high lying areas in Western side will experience water supply interruptions." The Makana Local Municipality said that this due to the amount of time it takes for water to travel from the James Kleynhans Water Treatment Works (EAST) to Waainek Water Treatment Works (WEST). "We will try by all means to ensure that the high lying areas get water as per the schedule, except that most of the time it will only be after 12 midday, as that's the only time we will be able to pump water from the intermediate to high level reservoir," it added. "We urge the community to use water sparingly, more so during the festive season. More communication regarding the programme of the festive season will be issued as the week progresses. "There is a high possibility that come Saturday we will have shut down the system again in preparation for the Christmas week to ensure that all areas will have water. "Our reservoir levels remain low and we are doing our best to refill them." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 