 The heavy rains in many parts of the country, along with unpredictable and frequent rolling blackouts, are a perfect recipes for traffic chaos, and motorists and pedestrians are urged to travel with caution. This is the message from the Automobile Association (AA) who says motorists must continue to be extra vigilant while on the road “Not only to do motorists have to contend with flooding, and heavy downpours which affect visibility, many traffic lights are out of service due to the bad weather. The problem is further exacerbated by the rolling blackouts which mean many street lights aren’t working either, making driving not only tricky, but dangerous,” warns the AA. The Association says an added issue which has developed the past few days is that potholes are occurring in places where they weren’t before. “Small holes are now becoming large potholes and many motorists only see these when it’s too late. These may become problems for other motorists as drivers swerve to avoid hitting the potholes, creating a knock-on effect down the line. If you are driving, be alert at all times, even if you have driven a specific route many times before. Road conditions can not only change overnight, they can change within a couple of hours, so be prepared at all times for new obstacles,” says the AA. The AA says with the spectre of unpredictable rolling blackouts continuing for the foreseeable future, and with the rain also not letting up, motorists and pedestrians should follow a few simple rules. These include: In addition, the AA warns the public not to relax their vigilance if the weather improves. “Even though the rain is expected to ease up in the next few days, roads will still be slippery, and traffic lights which are out, and potholes which have developed, will take a while to repair. Don’t assume because there’s no raining falling the danger has passed; it hasn’t. And, given that rolling blackouts are continuing on an irregular schedule, the dangers of motoring are, for now, still very real,” concludes the AA. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 