 East London - The National Commissioner of Police, General Khehla Sitole, on Wednesday said that he  learnt with shock and sadness about the senseless killing of a Constable in Coffee Bay in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday night. "Two constables, while attending a complaint at Zindidi Location in Coffee Bay shortly before midnight on Tuesday night, were approached by four men under the pretext that they were seeking help," said Spokesperson for the National Commissioner, Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo. "Two of the four men approached the police vehicle on the driver's side while the other two approached the vehicle from the passenger’s side. "Without any warning, one of the suspects shot the policeman on the driver's side killing him instantly. The second police member was forced to carry the deceased member and together with the complainant, they were all locked in the back of the police van. "One of the suspects drove the police vehicle to a nearby shop where they ordered security to open the gate." Apparently the suspects, then went up to the shop-owner's house and robbed him of an undisclosed amount of money and alcohol and fled in the owner's Nissan Navara leaving behind the surviving member and the complainant locked in the rear of the police vehicle. "The Navara was later found abandoned on the way to Mqanduli. The suspects also took a State-owned 9mm pistol with several rounds of ammunition from one of the police officers, a police bullet-proof vest and both members' cell phones." Gen Sitole has ordered an immediate manhunt for the suspects. "I have tasked the Provincial Commissioner in the Eastern Cape to mobilise the 72-hour Activation Plan which entails the mobilisation of critical resources as an effort to ensure that no information, intelligence and/or evidence to successfully trace the suspects is not lost,” said General Sitole. "We will not rest until these suspects are found and brought to book for this shocking and callous murder. "We call upon anyone who may have any information on the whereabouts of these suspects to please contact our Crime Stop number 086 00 10111 or one may download the SAPS MySAPSApp on any Android or iPhone. Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with strictest confidence." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 