 Bhisho - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Maabuyane, on Monday welcomed the release of  his Majesty King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, AH! Zwelibanzi from custody on Sunday night. "On behalf of the Eastern Cape Provincial government, I welcome the release of his Majesty King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, AH! Zwelibanzi from custody," the Premier said. "We welcome back his Majesty to society and we wish everyone in our province and country can embrace him. "His Majesty, Ah! Zwelibanzi deserves this break and we appeal to the royal family to do what is right in facilitating his integration into his family and into the Abathembu kingdom. We appeal for a smooth integration of his Majesty, especially within his family." Mabuyane said that the release of his Majesty is according to applicable legislation of our country and "we want to encourage the people of the province, especially Abathembu Kingdom to support the King in the process of integration to society". "Once again, we thank President Cyril Ramaphosa for the remission of his sentence. We appeal for a speedy consideration of his presidential pardon." Dalindyebo was jailed for 12 years for arson, assault, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice. The King allegedly acted like a medieval despot according to the State. However, the Supreme Court of Appeal, where he had sought to stay out of jail, the Abathembu king’s 15-year jail sentence was replaced with a 12-year term. The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape then welcomed the jailing of the King. The Democratic Alliance (DA) also announced that it would cancel the King's party membership due to the seriousness of the crimes he was convicted on. The AbaThembu royal council appointed King Dalindyebo's then 23 year-old son, Prince Azenathi Zanelizwe Dalindyebo, as acting king. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 