 Port Elizabeth - In strengthening the fight against gang violence in the Northern areas of Port Elizabeth, the Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga immediately implemented the 72 hour turnaround strategy and called for swift action after a six-year-old girl was hit by a stray bullet in Fitchardt Street in Gelvandale on Friday afternoon. "It is alleged that on Friday, at about 13:45, a 28-year-old gang member was walking from a shop in Fitchardt Street when he saw the three suspects emerging from another Street," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "They started shooting at him and during this time,, a 6-year-old girl was struck by a bullet in her leg. "She was playing in the front yard of her home in Fitchardt Street. The suspects fled on foot and the intended target was not injured." The child was taken to hospital, treated and discharged. "Maximum mobilisation of all resources were utilised to track down the suspects and on Saturday, at about 09:45, the first suspect, aged 23, was arrested at a house in Leith Street in Helenvale," Col Naidu said. "Within two hours of the first arrest, the other two suspects, aged 23 and 24, were found at a tavern in William Slammert Drive in Bloemendal. Both suspects were arrested." All three suspects are expected to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Tuesday on two charges of attempted murder. Lt Gen Ntshinga has reiterated that ‘the swift reaction of the 72-hour activation plan is a clear indication of the police's commitment in eradicating gang violence in the Northern areas of Port Elizabeth. "We will not allow such fearlessness from these criminals especially when our innocent children become victims. We will be working closely with the prosecuting authorities to ensure that these criminals remain behind bars," she said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 