 Mthatha - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Monday welcomed the release of the King of Abathembu, his Majesty Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, AH! Zwelibanzi. Dalindyebo was jailed for 12 years for arson, assault, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice. The King allegedly acted like a medieval despot according to the State. However, the Supreme Court of Appeal, where he had sought to stay out of jail, the Abathembu king’s 15-year jail sentence was replaced with a 12-year term. The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape then welcomed the jailing of the King. The Democratic Alliance (DA) also announced that it would cancel the King's party membership due to the seriousness of the crimes he was convicted on. The AbaThembu royal council appointed King Dalindyebo's then 23 year-old son, Prince Azenathi Zanelizwe Dalindyebo, as acting king. "I welcome the decision taken by the President of the Republic of South Africa, Mr Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa to release the King of Abathembu, his Majesty Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, AH! Zwelibanzi through the remission of his sentence," Mabuyane said. "I want to take this opportunity to wish his Majesty well in the process to integrate with society, especially his family, the royal family, AbaThembu kingdom and the people of Eastern Cape province." Remission of sentence, this is where the President uses the powers vested on him by the constitution and the correctional services act to grant remissions,which effectively means cutting the sentence short. "It also means it fast tracks the dates upon which an inmate will be placed on parole, subject to meeting a set criteria," Mabuyane explained. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  