 Port Elizabeth - South Africans took to social media on Friday to express their anger following news that power utility, Eskom, would implement Stage 4 load shedding from Friday afternoon to Saturday morning. Eskom had earlier on said that it would implement Stage 2 load shedding over the same period. On Thursday, Eskom announced; ” Eskom regrets that Stage 2 loadshedding will be implemented from 16:00 to 23:00 today due to a shortage of capacity. “ It was the forced to continue rotational loadshedding until 05:00 on Friday morning. Before resuming loadshedding at 9am. For some time, Eskom had not posted anything about this impending Stage 4 load shedding on its Twitter page. It often uses Twitter to send out notifications to the public. It eventually did:  #POWERALERT 2Date: 06 December 2019Stage 2 rotational loadshedding moves up to Stage 4 from 14:00 today.@@News24 @CityPowerJhb @City_Ekurhuleni @CityTshwane @CityofCT @eThekwiniM @CityofJoburgZA @TrafficSA @ewnupdates @SABCNewsOnline @SAfmRadio @IOL pic.twitter.com/nLz28JARPg On Friday, at lunch time - 'Stage 4' was trending on Twitter. Many wondered how the country's power supply had gone to this extent.  Stage 4 loadshedding compromising birthday plans. You are ruining lives @Eskom_SA sick of you pic.twitter.com/EhLbrSPyp0  You have gót to be kidding me. Going from no #loadshedding to stage 2, then stage 4 in one day. What the actual fuck pic.twitter.com/XYNuAbiZ5V  My Loadshedding App says Stage 4 from 14h00. @Eskom_SA web site says not Load Shedding. Are they in denial? #Loadshedding pic.twitter.com/FZIRPObK0o  Stage 4 #loadshedding. The wheels are coming off rather spectacularly. After SAA, what other decisions will our government reluctantly be forced into? Eskom has reportedly said this is due to unplanned breakdowns and low water levels at its pumped storage schemes among other issues. The power utility says load shedding is part of efforts to protect its power system from a total collapse. Here are tips on how to be safe on the road during Eskom loadshedding. You are also advised to check your security system before the lights go out. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 