 Port Alfred - Five suspects, aged between the ages of 28 and 39 were arrested early on Friday morning and face charges of theft, possession of abalone without a permit and possession of undersized abalone. "During the early hours of Friday morning, several suspects entered a holiday cottage outside Port Alfred whilst the occupants were asleep," described police spokesperson, Captain Mali Govender. "They took various items including fishing equipment, wet suit and cell phones. "The local farm security was alerted and started to track the suspects. "Members of the SAPS K9 and local SAPS were also mobilised." Capt Govender said that after several hours of tracking the suspects, the local farm security officer, found items of clothing that were drying in the dense bush. "Other items which resembled the stolen items were also found as well as abalone. The unsuspecting suspects, who were 'resting' were alarmed when they were caught out." She said that all the stolen items with the exception of the cell phones were recovered as well as 27 abalone that were seized. "During the preliminary investigation and interviewing of the suspects, the cell phones were found wrapped in a plastic buried in the sand," said Capt Govender. "All stolen items were handed to the ecstatic complainant, who expressed his appreciation to the hard working team. All suspects will appear in the Local Magistrates Court this week." Brigadier Morgan Govender, Port Alfred SAPS Cluster Commander, commended all the role players for their dedication and swift action. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 