 Port Elizabeth  - Police officers are often perceived to possess a hardened personality which is associated with law and order. "However many people don’t always get to see or know that there is a softer side to our men and women in blue," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "While performing their duties in some areas, our police officers do take note of the environment and the plight of many citizens, which touches their heart especially children, who are so malnourished due to lack of nutrition." On Friday, the Anti-Gang Unit members swapped their blue uniform and played Santa Claus to many impoverished families as well as an orphanage in the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth. "The police officers and their Commander, Brig Andrew Louw, were accompanied by the Deputy Provincial Commissioner: Crime Detection, Maj Gen Dladla; Mount Road Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Patekile, and senior officers from the Provincial office to the SOS Children’s Home in Shauderville where 20 gifts and sweet parcels were handed to 20 orphaned children, who will remain at the home during Christmas." She added that an aids haven as well as five families in need of assistance were also visited in Shauderville. "Grocery hampers and presents were handed to these people." Col Naidu said that AGU members bought the groceries and presents from monies donated by members and their commander. "Such show of compassion especially during this time of the year is nothing short of heroic. "The community was very receptive of the kind gesture of the police members whom they see on a daily basis carrying out duties so different to what was displayed today," she added. "This gesture truly demonstrates the spirit of Ubuntu as our police officers portrayed that ‘actions do speak louder than words'." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 