 Port Elizabeth - A former Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Ward Councillor, 52-year-old Aaron Nyikilana was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment on Monday for a murder that took place on 2 January 2018. "In that case Nyikilana, the ex-councillor of ward 54 and also a tavern owner in NU12, Motherwell, was searching for persons that took part in fighting at his tavern the previous night," described police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "He found Lindokhule 'Docs' Marcus, 23 years old, and his friends in the street. "After confronting him and ordering him to get into Nyikilana's black BMW, Marcus refused and started running away. "Nyikilana then chased him and shot him in the back with his .45 calibre revolver." Capt Beetge said that Nyikilana was arrested shortly afterwards and his firearm, which was licenced, was confiscated. "On Monday, he was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment and his firearm surrendered to the State as he was also found to be unfit to own a firearm by the court." Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, applauded the sentence and praised all the role players and detectives that ensured a lengthy jail sentence. He also added; "Firearm owners must adhere to the law. To own a firearm comes with a responsibility and one cannot just use it as one pleases or as an outlet for rage. "To commit murder is a serious offence, and using a firearm to commit the crime has even deeper consequences. We hope that this court outcome will serve as a warning to all fire arm owners to be responsible and accountable for owning a fire arm at all times." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 