 Port Elizabeth -  As if five days of load shedding - which included Stage 4 load shedding, were not enough, power utility Eskom on Monday announced it had escalated to Stage 6 rotational load shedding - the first time in South Africa's history. "We regret and sincerely apologise that stage 4 loadshedding will move toStage 6 loadshedding as from 18:00 today, as a result of a shortage of capacity. This follows a technical problem at Medupi Power Station impacting additional generation supply," Eskom said.   #POWERALERT 3Date: 09 December 2019Loadshedding moves to stage 6@News24 @IOL@TimesLIVE @ewnupdates @SABCNewsOnline @SAfmRadio @POWER987News @ukhozi_fm @METROFMSA @TheCitizen_News pic.twitter.com/3vBCEwUv1b  Eskom said that heavy rains have caused coal handling and operational problems at several power stations. "We remind and assure customers that loadshedding at Stage 6 is no cause for alarm as the system is being effectively controlled. Stage 6, requires 6000MW to be rotationally loadshed," said the power utility. "Eskom's emergency response command centre and technical teams will be working through the night to restore units as soonas possible. Eskom is working closely large industry to assist with further load curtailment. "Loadshedding is a responsible act and highly controlled process, implemented to protect the country from a national blackout." After 2015, Eskom and the municipalities identified the need to extend the loadshedding stages up to stage 8 and the national code (NRS048-9 Ed 2) was subsequently updated. "Even beyond these schedules, the System Operator will reduce demand in a manner that is controlled," the utility said. "Stage 6 loadshedding schedules are available on the Eskom website. Eskom will keep you updated." Meanwhile, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality said it would follow the Stage 4 schedule.   We took a decision to continue following the STAGE 4 schedule at this stage. Please see below: pic.twitter.com/8DEjVVJ0vT  Rotational load shedding is expected to continue at least for the rest of this week. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 