 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Nelson Mandela Bay on Thursday welcomed the removal of the United Democratic Movement’s (UDM) Mongameli Bobani, as executive mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay. "In his fifteen months in office Bobani has been the most destructive mayor that this Metro has ever seen, and has single-handedly run this City into the ground. It comes as no surprise that every other party present voted to remove him," said DA Nelson Mandela Bay Caucus Chairperson, Athol Trollip. Trollip and Bobani wer once Mayor and Deputy Mayor respectively following a coalition between the DA and UDM that was meant to ensure the African National Congress (ANC) would not oust them after its defeaat in the 2016 Local Government Elections. However, Trollip and Bobani soon had a fall out resulting in Trollip firing Bobani from the Metro's Health portfolio. After months of accusations and counter-accusations, Bobani was ousted as Deputy Mayor in August 2017. Bobani then went after Trollip and managed to get the DA-led coalition government ousted in August 2018 with the help of the ANC and other parties. Bobani took Trollip's former post as Mayor. Since then, the DA and its then coalition partners, tried and failed several times to remove Bobani from his post as Mayor citing corruption and mismanagement. This culminated in the events of Thursday when all the major parties in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council - including his coalition partners, agreed to remove him. According to Trollip; "The question still needs to be asked at a national level why UDM leader, Bantu Holomisa, who has a reputation for fighting corruption, did and said nothing against Bobani’s reign of terror in Nelson Mandela Bay." He said under Bobani’s watch: Trollip added that this is in sharp contrast to the 24 months where the DA led coalition was in charge, with a host of successes, including among others: "Now that Bobani has been removed, hopefully we can return to putting the people of Nelson Mandela Bay first." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 