 Port Elizabeth - The 72-hour activation plan was immediately implemented as Mount Road Cluster Detective Trio Task Team launched a manhunt for six suspects - one of them injured, following their alleged involvement in a murder, hijacking and business robbery, which took place on Friday night in Greenbushes, Port Elizabeth. "It is alleged that on Friday, at about 20:08, the complainant, 21 years old was in the shop in Greenbushes Road in Greenbushes in Kabega Park area and was at the counter when six males entered the shop," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The males were armed and demanded money and goods from the complainant. The panic alarm was activated and immediately the security company responded. "As the security guard - Roderick Erasmus, entered, he grappled with the suspect that was closest to the door." The 49-year-old shot at the suspects, injuring one of them. However, the suspects retaliated and fatally wounded Erasmus. "A customer aged 50, who was in the shop was robbed of his cellphone, wallet and his vehicle, a Nissan NP200 bakkie," Col Naidu said. "The suspects also took cash, cigarettes as well as the complainant’s cellphone and the security official’s firearm. The suspects’ vehicle, a Red Ford XR3 and the bakkie were recovered about 3km from the shop. "Some of the money and the wallet belonging to the customer was also recovered not far from the vehicles. The Ford XR 3 was reported stolen in Kwadwesi in December 2019. "Police suspect that a silver grey VW Polo was also used by the suspects." Col Naidu said that police are appealing to the community, hospitals and medical centres to immediately contact them should they be suspicious of any males or anyone brought in for medical assistance as one suspect was wounded. "The suspects are believed to be in their 30’s and are african males. One suspect has a scar (wound) on the left side of his face," she added. "Anyone with any information is asked to contact D/Colonel Paul Orange on 082 779 7247 or SAPS Kabega Park on 041 397 6802 or Crime Stop 08 600 10111 or 10111 centre. All information is confidential and callers have the right to remain anonymous." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 