 2019 will be remembered as one of the great years in sport in South African history. The Springboks won the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan and brought home the Webb Ellis Cup and the whole South Africa celebrated together. Bafana Bafana qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations that was held in Egypt. Our mens national soccer team did not only qualify for the event but also made it through to the quarter finals where we crashed out of the competition against Nigeria. Our female national soccer team qualified for their first ever FIFA Woman’s World cup that was hosted in France. Although Banyana Banyana did not go past the group stages in the tournament they were one of the two nations representing Africa, the other team being Nigeria. The Proteas had a woeful year; they ended up seventh in the ICC Cricket World Cup in England earlier this year. They would undoubtedly be looking to settle some scores in the upcoming T20 World Cup in Australia 2020. Football is one of the few sports that does not really take a break over the holiday season. The English Premier League only has a few days break between matches to celebrate the festive season. Premier League matches resume play on Boxing Day. The English Premier League has been dominated by Liverpool for much of this season. They are currently sitting at the top of the log with 46 points ahead of Leicester City with 38 points; both teams have won all of their five last matches. This year has also been a big year for local football tournaments. The Premier Soccer League announced earlier this month that they surpassed a billion Rand in revenue for the 2018/2019 season, a real mile stone for local football. The PSL also takes a break during the festive season and the last match for this year will be played on the 22nd of December with the next match kicking off in 2020. Kaizer Chiefs are currently leading the pack with 34 points with a 10 point lead over SuperSport United in second place. Kaizer Chiefs has managed to win all of their last five matches in the Premier League. Betway.co.za has football from around the world available to bet on. Betway soccer betting has local football including the Premier Soccer League and National First Division on offer as well as international football including local football leagues in England, France, Italy, Germany and Spain to name a few. Betway is currently running two great promotions; the first promotion is a R10 free bet for signing up, the second promotion is the “Dezemba Daily Deals” which gives signed-up members different deals on the day in December. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 