 Fort Beaufort - The Raymond Mhlaba Municipality on Thursday said it has noted a media release issued by Eskom on Friday the 13/12/2019 regarding its planned bulk electricity supply disruptions in Adelaide, Bedford, and Fort Beaufort from the 23 December 2019. "Eskom has not officially notified the Municipality on the planned disruptions. The last discussion they had with the Municipality, the Power Utility has agreed to discuss this matter by the 14 January 2020 further," the municipality said. "The Municipality has learnt through the media that Eskom intends to disrupt the electricity supply in the above mentioned towns and has since instructed its lawyers to take this matter up with Eskom as a matter of urgency. "This move is motivated by the fact that, the continuous discussions on this matter are handled by both lawyers in the spirit of intergovernmental relations." It said that it is essential to state that it is not correct that the Municipality is not servicing its debt on electricity supply. "Secondly, the high debt on electricity is as a result of the amalgamation, and the Municipality has requested both national and provincial government to assist on the matter but in vain," the municipality described. "Furthermore, the Municipality is shocked that Eskom is committed to disrupt supply during the holiday season and has included Fort Beaufort account because initially, it was Adelaide and Bedford. "Today, the Municipality has once again instructed its lawyers to engage Eskom and it will continue to do so until an amicable solution is reached and failing which, the Municipality will take this matter further." It said it is pursuing all avenues to avoid power cuts. "Raymond Mhlaba Municipality wants to assure all residents, businesses and stakeholders that it's still committed to deliver uninterrupted services to them and will ensure that all avenues available to keep lights on are explored." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 