 Port Elizabeth - A police officer’s job is seldom rewarding, but the dedication, passion for justice and service to the community is what drives them towards ensuring that criminals are arrested and put behind bars. "On Wednesday, at about 10:50 the Anti-Gang Unit Tracking Team were busy following up on a suspicious vehicle and were driving in old Grahamstown Road towards New Brighton when they saw a truck with a horse and trailer parked on the side of the road with its doors open," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "A white Toyota Etios was parked in front of the truck and a male was seen carrying a car battery into the truck. "This scene looked very suspicious and tracking team members passed them and then made a U-turn with their unmarked vehicle." She said that as they approached the truck, three males jumped out and ran towards the bushes. "Another two males jumped into the Toyota Etios and sped off. The police officers fired shots towards the vehicle, but they managed to get away," Col Naidu added. "Two suspects, aged 24 and 34 years old, were arrested by the tracking team members and a jamming device was found on one of the suspects. "The driver of the truck was found in the vehicle." She said that they were detained on a charge of vehicle hijacking. The truck was transporting spices.  Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the team for acting on their instinct and apprehending the suspects. "A police officer must stay sharp and alert at all times and should always be prepared for the unexpected. These members are experienced and by following their instinct, the contents of the truck were intact and the truck driver’s life was spared," added Maj Gen Patekile. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 