 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Traffic Law Enforcement arrested six motorists for driving under the influence of alcohol on Friday, and the Metro Police arrested another three on Saturday at roadblocks conducted as part of the Safety and Security Festive Season road safety campaign. The Traffic Law Enforcement team, responsible for the six arrests, was especially established to concentrate on catching drunk drivers and is located in the Office of the Director: Traffic and Licensing. Warren Prins, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Director of Traffic and Licensing, said the lowest recorded breathalyser reading, of the six arrested by his team, was 0.52 mg/l of breath and the highest 1.03 mg/l. The legal limit is 0.24 mg per litre of breath. “It was especially worrisome that we made these arrests before 22:30 on Friday. Even though it was still reasonably early, we encountered these very intoxicated drivers on our roads. “The suspects were taken to the Kabega South African Police Services centre and the Gelvandale Saps centre as the roadblocks were conducted at these two police precincts. “They will appear in court on Monday,” Prins said. The Metro Police managed to nab three men, two aged 36 and another 33, at three different locations on Saturday. Metro Police Chief Yolande Faro said the breathalyser tests recorded 1.11 mg per litre of breath, 1.09 mg/l and 0.50 mg/l. “I trust that these results will serve as a deterrent for others as we are out in full force to keep these callous drivers off the road. “Their wilful illegal behaviour could easily have led to carnage on our roads,” Faro said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 