 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape says it has noted with concern the allegations of assault levelled against Luntu Sokutu, SACP Skenjana Roji District Spokesperson. "The allegations of Comrade Luntu Sokutu assaulting a young female surfaced on the social media on Sunday," said Siyabonga Mdodi, SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson. "The SACP is informed that a case has been opened with the South African Police Services (SAPS), and therefore will allow the legal process to take its course. "We appeal to members of our organisation to allow the due process and the law to take its course." Mdodi said that the SACP is committed to the struggles against the scourge of Gender Based Violence and has led many campaigns in this front including the recent Red October Campaign. "It is in this context that the SACP views these allegations to be serious and of great concern. It is in this context that the Party will establish a process to seek truth from facts, to ensure due process and procedural fairness," he added. "The seriousness of the matter requires no political point scoring or vindictiveness but diligent following of the rule of law to the latter. "It is in this context that as the SACP, we welcome the measures undertaken by the Premier in relation to the subject matter of putting Comrade Luntu on leave of absence." Mdodi said that the SACP Provincial Office has instructed the District Leadership of the SACP Skenjana Roji District to afford Comrade Luntu Sokutu an opportunity to take the organisation into confidence. "The District is instructed to report to the SACP Provincial Office within the course of the week on action to be taken guided by the facts before itself," he described. "The SACP will announce the outcomes of the process to the public in due course." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 