 Exhibition software development ATAS, one of South Africa’s most successful software development companies will have one of its divisions, Standscape, exhibiting at International Confex in London at the end of February. Caroline Morgan, CEO of ATAS, says “We started life 20 years ago, as a small software house, writing custom systems for businesses and factories. One of those businesses was a conference and exhibition organiser who asked us to write an online booking system for their use.” “There is a great need for good conference, exhibition and event software and so we soon expanded our development into this industry.   The result is that ATAS spawned a new exhibition division called Standscape,” adds Ms Morgan. Ms Morgan is an award-winning businesswoman who has pioneered conference and exhibition software in South Africa. She is planning to export her innovative new technology to the rest of the world by exhibiting at International Confex. Standscape is highly innovative and offers user-friendly online software solutions that provide accuracy and efficiency for the exhibition organiser. Ms Morgan says that Standscape provides an interactive stand-booking system for exhibitions and tradeshows. Exhibitors can view the live floorplan, select a stand and book it in real-time. A second stage collects further information from the exhibitor such as attendance of related social events, names of stand reps, wording for fascia board and anything else the organiser needs. Standscape’s typical customer is an organizer of tradeshows with 200+ stands. These include medical, automotive, health and agricultural expos, amongst others. Exhibiting alongside Standscape will be Necta, a multi-event app that facilitates better connections between businesses and attendees to any event. Bruce Kay, the founder of Necta says, “We offer a truly digital, synchronised journey from beginning to end for the exhibitor, the visitor and the organiser.” “The two systems, Standscape and Necta, complement each. We believe that any Exhibition organiser will benefit significantly by using our two systems to facilitate and manage their exhibition. We are planning to find customers, agents or collaborators in the UK and Europe,” concludes Ms Morgan. For more information Ms Morgan can be contacted on info@standscape.online or visit her at stand N28C at International Confex. Read more about EXBO (ATAS’s conference software division) here. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 