 Looking for a great venue to host your functions or corporate events in Port Elizabeth? Nestled in the green pastures of the Homeleigh Farmyard is a family-run functions venue called Thatchwoods. At Thatchwoods, you can host any event from weddings, conferences, team-building activities, parties and Sunday lunches. The venue is surrounded by lush green pastures, rolling hills and a beautiful sea view. You will be totally enveloped by the tranquil atmosphere of the countryside. No need to stress about planning your event, Thatchwoods has experienced events staff, who will help you through the whole process from start to finnish. Need a place to host your next corporate function or team-building activity? The Thatchwoods conference centre is a great place to confer about any topic and help build interpersonal relationships and social interactions. They can accommodate any group of people from a small team to a big cinema style group of 50 delegates. As part of the package, you will be served Peacock coffee or juice and a two-course lunch with tea/coffee and biscuits. When it comes to team-building, Thatchwoods has a large, open field where you can enjoy any fun team-building activities. When planning a wedding, Thatchwoods is the perfect venue! Whether you prefer and intimate, rustic ceremony or an elegant, draped affair, they can accommodate you. Their wedding venue can accommodate up to 140 guests with a dance floor, and can also stylishly host a more intimate and small ceremony. A professional team of photographers, DJ’s, drapers, dress designers as well as cake designers can be provided for your peace of mind. At Thatchwoods, it doesn’t matter if you’re hosting a wild theme party or an intimate Sunday lunch in their restaurant, they have the means to accommodate you! To find out more about what Thatchwoods has to offer, call them on 041 379 2906or email starters@mweb.co.za. Visit their website at thatchwoods.co.za. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 