 The African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) Nelson Mandela Bay has announced Dawn Rogers as their candidate for the upcoming by-election in Ward 2 on the 6th of March 2019. Ward 2, previously held by the DA, covers South End, parts of Humewood, Forest Hill and parts of Summerstrand in Port Elizabeth. Former Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Portfolio Councillor for Public Health councillor, Lance Grootboom, said that he trusts Rogers to help address the challenges faced by Ward 2 residents should she be elected. “During my tenure as the MMC of Public Health, I developed over 63 parks in less than one year throughout the Metro, of which some were previously dumping sites. “In an effort to stop vandalism and prevent cattle from destroying graves at Forest Hill Cemetery in Ward 2, I had fencing put up. “In addition, Grootboom received praise for PE having the cleanest beaches in 2017 holiday season,” he described. Rogers says that she has confidence in the ACDP because they don’t speak, they deliver. A property consultant and a people’s person, Rogers said her committement lies in her marriage, family and growing the city. She is known and respected in the community and is already a public servant in many ways - having raised funds for Bet Sheekom, house for abused women, and other organisations. During a recent business event, she voiced her love for her city and its people. “Serving and putting the needs of people first are my business” said Rogers. “I know that everyone should be treated equally and have the same opportunities afforded to them. That’s why I am motived to stand for a real improvement and a shared future, simply because no-one should ever be taken advantage of." Roger's has vowed to address the following key areas, should she be elected: “We want to encourage residents of Ward 2 to vote for ACDP because a vote for the ACDP will be a vote for a strong, healthy, prosperous and purpose-driven ward you deserve.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 