 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, and his Mayoral Committee, on Wednesday hosted a media breakfast where Bobani shared with the media the work that has been done by the current African National Congress (ANC)-led administration since it took office in September last year. Bobani began by stating that the administration sought to connect, consult, implement and support poor and disadvantaged communities in the Metro "unapologetically". “We are now experiencing killings in our city and when we look into that, some of those people have nothing to do so this government is committed to ensure that we are creating jobs for those people. “Jobs eliminate gangsters because most of the gang members will have something to do every day and other killings will be prevented,” the Mayor said. Bobani said that the ANC-led administration would love to ensure that the lives of residents in the Bay are changed. “We believe that we are on the right track and we have plenty more to do and it is going to take all of us to get the job done.” He noted that it is not going to be easy, but emphasized that it is a challenge they are prepared to take on. Bobani said that new ideas are explored every day to tackle issues that are faced by the Bay's communities. “Just like we did with the SMMEs emergency where we relied to creativity to beat all odds; for example our waste management crews are leading one of the most aggressive clean-up efforts in the history of the city. “Public Health led an award-winning food blitz where shop owners and chain stores were checked for permits and complaints. “Tittle deeds were handed to members of the public, electrification of informal settlement, we had the staging of the IronMan World Championship etc.” Bobani said that they have also embarked on a mission to create employment for unemployed graduates. “Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to bring our communities close together, black and white unapologetically,” he concluded. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 