 After a video emerged of an Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Member of Parliament allegedly slapping a man at the National Assembly after President Cyril Ramaphosa's 2019 State of the Nation Address (SONA), the party said it was responding to an apparent threat of assassination on its Commander In Chief, Julius Malema. EFF National spokesperson, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, said that there had been threats on Malema should he have disrupted Ramaphosa's SONA 2019 speech. "The security threat implicates elite members of the police, who are in collaboration with right wing groups to take the life of the CIC, in an attempt to undermine the advances on the expropriation of land without compensation discourse, that will soon be law," Ndlozi said. "We are told that the Parliamentary Security Service, a.k.a 'white shirts', have been infiltrated by these groups and targeted the occasion of the SONA to execute the assassination. "The hope was that the EFF caucus would be kicked out of the house, using the parliamentary security (white Shirts)." Ndlozi described that the anticipated evil acts would then be carried out "during this moment of chaos". While the EFF had promised to disrupt Ramaphosa's SONA should he not account for allegations made in the BOSASA corruption scandal, the only incident - that seemingly had Ramaphosa sweating, was when Malema rose up to call  Deputy Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Thabang Makwetla, to order over his “clapping”. Malema promised that Makwetla is going to jail.  He said that inquiries regarding this threat must be directed to the SAPS and the Minister of Police. "EFF leadership were unreasonably stopped by these white shirts in parliament" Ndlozi said when  Malema, and the EFF leadership were "unreasonably stopped by these white shirts in parliament," after the house had been adjourned, they all thought this was the moment and reacted with the necessary self-defence. Media houses that were present managed to shoot a video of the incident, which has widely been circulated on social media.  "The event of a white security man in black and white, being pushed and clapped in the face, followed him violently pulling the CIC Malema, from passing through the corridor doors of the National Assembly," Ndlozi said. "We must put it on record that according to the Powers, Privileges, and Immunities of Members of Parliament Act, Section 7 (c), no one is allowed to obstruct MPs in the precinct of parliament from going anywhere to do their work. It is illegal and those who do security in the precinct should be well aware of these provisions." Ndlozi said that the EFF is, nonetheless, not moved or intimidated by these reports of a security threat. "The basis for not turning SONA into a Question and Answer session, as communicated in our January press conference, is because President Cyril Ramaphosa complied with our demands. "We had said he must come clean in the BOSASA money that he has received; and communicate this in an open media platform. "He not only did so at the eNCA, he also released his statement to the Public Protector regarding the matter. "This proves him as a man who does not think of himself as above the law, because all of us must be accountable and never take parliament for granted," he said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 