 After witnessing many violent events at schools in South Africa and around the world, the Department of Education in the Kingdom of Cambodia has decided to join forces with international NGO Heavenly Culture, World Peace and Restoration of Light (HWPL) to promote peace in schools. HWPL established a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Education of Cambodia in 2018 to introduce nationwide peace education and develop related policies and programs. According to HWPL, these efforts government officials and civic groups are also seeking ways to drive principles of peace, based on the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War (DPCW), in their communities. HWPL said that in Port Elizabeth, a survey was conducted recently by Umhlali Project and revealed that most schools in this city experience violence. "Learners that took part of the survey admitted to have faced direct violence while at schools. "Teachers also shared the plight of being around violent children and having no say as they don’t want to infringe children’s rights but also fear for their lives," HWPL described in a statement. To date, HWPL said that they have cooperated with various schools and educational institutions worldwide to promote skills of peacemaking. "Out of the 127 schools, from 9 different countries that voluntarily became HWPL Peace Academies, 12 schools from Southern African region signed the Memorandum of Understanding. "Among them are Cape Town schools Liesbeeck Primary, Bonteheuwel High School, Holy Cross Girls High School School as well as Universidade Jean Piaget de Moçambique in Mozambique." HWPL told RNEWS that they have a peace education subject, which is similar to Life Oriantation, but will teach about peace making skills to make an educational environment a safe space. However when asked asked about the National Department of Education in South Africa, they said: "they haven’t yet engaged us on the project". "We have a peace education curriculum like Your Life orientation curriculum to teach younger people to have peaceful values and how to co exist." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 