 Port Elizabeth - A 19-year-old teenage gang member was sentenced on Wednesday in the Port Elizabeth Regional court for murder, attempted murder, unlawful possession of a firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition. "On 2 August 2017, a 27-year-old male was injured and his friend escaped unscathed," said police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu. "On the mentioned date, at 15:25, the two friends were smoking in a yard in Bongo Street in Helenvale. As they were leaving the yard, two suspects entered the yard. "Shots were fired at them and the 27-year-old male sustained a bullet wound to his upper arm while the other victim managed to flee." She added that the suspects then ran out from the yard and fired at Andrew Rosenberg (26), who was standing at a gate in Bongo Street. "Rosenberg sustained a fatal bullet wound to his head." Two days later, the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit (Gang Investigation) arrested the teenager at a house in Leith Street. "He remained in custody until the finalisation of the case. A second suspect - a 16-year-old, was also arrested and appeared in court however the case against him was withdrawn and he was released." On Wednesday, Augusto Kamfer was sentenced as follows: 1. Murder 12 years imprisonment 2. Attempted Murder and 3. Attempted Murder: 6 years imprisonment (Count 2 and 3 taken together for purposes of sentence) 4. Unlawful possession of firearm and 5. Unlawful possession of Ammunition: 5 years imprisonment (Count 4 and 5 taken together for purposes of sentence). "The sentences imposed in respect of Count 2, 3, 4 and 5 will run concurrently with the sentence imposed in respect of Count 1," Col Naidu said. "Effectively he will serve 12 years in prison. The accused was also declared unfit to possess a firearm." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 