 East London - Buffalo City Municipality Executive Mayor, Xola Pakati, hosted a delegation from the Jinhua Municipal People’s Government in East London. The 27-member delegation visited the City to strengthen the ties and also to enhance the mutually-beneficial relations between the two cities. The partnership with the Jinhua Municipal People’s Government spans more than 17 years and it is founded on South Africa’s relations with the people of China, mutual trust and cooperation for economic development, social justice and political freedom. Speaking at the dinner held on Friday 26 July at the East London ICC, Pakati said: “It was my great honour to welcome a high-level delegation from the Jinhua Municipal People’s Government in our Metro this evening. "We are confident that this visit will strengthen and enhance our mutually-beneficial relations as cities. We trust that today's visit will help expedite all the processes towards having more Chinese investors locating in our country.”He added that the economy of the Asian countries continues to show a robust outlook, with an overall growth rate of 6.5 percent projected for 2019, while economic growth in China is projected to moderate to 6.4 percent in 2019. Within this, the Asian economies continue to reflect a healthy domestic demand outlook for internationally produced products.The City is currently pursuing a strategy of diversifying and industrialising the economy and is therefore welcoming all investments which will diversify the local economy and create a positive trade balance.Giving words of encouragement Honorable Deputy Secretary of Jinhua Municipal Committee of the CPC, Chen Lingling said: “The economy of Buffalo City carries huge potential and its profile confirms it as a credible investment destination. Our two cities revived their partnership through the signing of an agreement, which states. "On the basis of equality and mutual benefit, the two parties will continue various exchanges and cooperation in the fields of economy, trade, science and technology, culture, education and tourism to promote common prosperity.”The visit concluded with a Business Breakfast on Saturday 28 July where local business people shared their experiences and business ideas with the Chinese delegation. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 