  Port Elizabeth - It was quite an enterprising week for the Rand as the local currency continued to keep the pressure on the Dollar... It was a big week for events too, with SARB exerting some authority, cryptocurrency grabbing some headlines, Zuma in the dock and much more... ...and all in all, a solid week for the ZAR - to round off a solid few weeks!. So let's get into the detail!   Before the week began, we issued our forecast with the expected trend for the market being down lower to head into the R13.87 to 13.70 area before we would see it bottoming out. We opened the week at R13.9784, so the Rand still had some room to run before we would see it heading weaker...    And here were some of the biggest headlines from the week: After a closing the previous week out sub R14/$, it was the Rand on the front foot for once heading into Monday... ...and this meant that by midday, the market was trading at under R13.90! With a big week ahead, and an MPC Interest Rate Decision on Thursday, and the Rand was going to be in the thick of it. In China it was a blue Monday, as Chinese 2nd quarter GDP was ‘out for a duck’, when the figure came in at 6.2% (YoY) which is the lowest figure on record. The Trade War has done real damage to the economy, and was not helped by comments of Trump's, saying “We have a long way to go as far as tariffs where China is concerned, if we want. We have another $325 billion we can put a tariff on, if we want." At least discussions continue to take place between the US & China with a view to a resolution, but we remain on shaky ground. And so we go... The focus the whole week was leading toward Thursday, to see what SARB would do - and what the Rand's reaction would be. Economists across the board were saying with absolute certainty that the Rand would weaken against all currencies should the expected rate cut actually come through... ...and come the rate cut did, exactly as expected... ...as for the market...well, not quite as expected!   The Rand flummoxed all economists' predictions once again! It did not make logical sense in fundamental economics, and yet it had happened - proving the importance of keeping our emotions out of this game. Remember, events do NOT give market direction, and only provide the market with triggers to act based on the underlying sentiment - which was Rand-bullish! Again, I repeat: Events are triggers - not direction givers! This is shown in this piece of a webinar I did a while back, which shows exactly how we can understand emotions in markets. And the Rand reaped the benefit this time, trading close to R13.80! (right in the middle of our forecast target from Friday)  In other news: The Rand lost some ground through to the close on Friday, but still closed in the good for the week - in and around R13.90 to the Dollar... ...it had certainly been an interesting few days!   This week sees several economic events which could provide triggers for the the next few days, being amongst others:: And then, of course, continued global tensions surrounding the ongoing trade war and US/Iran tensions also will be in the headlines. We have seen (once again) last week that these events cannot provide us with consistent direction, but it is important to know when they are expected, as they can be triggers for significant moves. When looking for direction, we instead turn to the Elliott Wave Principle, which is the study of irrational yet predictable human behaviour in financial markets. ...and all financial markets are moved by mass human sentiment. By analyzing these sentiment patterns together with our unique combination of momentum, time and price-relationship studies, we are able to come up with where this sentiment is likely to take the market - in smaller and larger timeframes. And in so doing, answer the following questions: Being able to answer these questions allows you to make decisions ahead of time, based on an objective outlook... ... not based on gut feel, emotions or rational fundamentals. Why not join us free for 14 days - andexperience it for yourself. Simply click the link below. Get 14 Days Access To Our Forecast Here I look forward to helping you make educated, informed and better forex decsions. To your success~ James Paynter  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 