 Uitenhage - In a bid to inspire the faster resolution of service delivery concerns of residents and improve interaction with constituencies, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor Mongameli Bobani wrote to all Ward Councillors this week. The focus of the letters, sent out on Wednesday, is to get all sixty Ward Councillors to submit a list of all the challenges they face in their respective wards. Entitled RE: Service Delivery Challengesit states: “This serves to request your good office to submit all service delivery related challenges that your ward is faced with, by no later than Thursday, 11 July 2019. The purpose for this request is to ensure that all challenges are attended to for the betterment of living conditions of your ward residents.” “These lists of service delivery challenges will serve as a barometer of how well Ward Councillors are serving the interests of their ward residents and ensure accountability by our public representatives beyond party political allegiances. “Our financial year started on Monday with adequately resourced budgets in place to service the needs of our communities. “Beyond just dealing with challenges and having the resources to do so, I would like Ward Councillors and my office to provide communities with regular feedback to keep them abreast with what is going on in the areas where they live. Communities, with all its varied interests, are after all our most important stakeholder and demand our best,” Mayor Bobani said. The correspondence from the Mayor follows a session he had on Monday in Uitenhage to encourage improved and transparent expenditure from day one of the 2019-2020 financial year, which started on 1 July and ends on 30 June 2020. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 