 Port Elizabeth - For the 12th year in succession Pam Golding Properties has been recognised as South Africa’s ‘Best Estate Agency South Africa’ (over 20 offices) in the prestigious International Property Awards (IPA) held in London recently, which celebrate the highest levels of excellence and achievement globally by companies operating in all sectors of the real estate industry. Competing against real estate agencies from around South Africa, the company was also awarded Best Real Estate Agency Marketing South Africa and Best Real Estate Agency Website South Africa. This makes the Pam Golding Property group the most highly awarded real estate company in the country, winning no less than 55 prestigious International Property Awards and the only South African real estate company to have achieved ‘Superbrand’ status consecutively over four years. Pam Golding Properties now goes forward to compete for the regional award for Best Real Estate Agency Africa, and if successful, as a contender for International World’s Best award in this category. The IPA awards are judged by an independent panel of over 80 industry experts, focusing on criteria which include service, innovation, quality, design and originality. Says Dr Andrew Golding, chief executive of the Pam Golding Property group: “Scooping highest honours once again for these three coveted awards reaffirms our ongoing commitment to providing our clients with a world-class standard of differentiated service, while upholding our reputation for developing long-term customer relationships based on the cornerstones of knowledge, experience, integrity and empathy. “In this extremely highly-competitive, ever-evolving industry, coupled with ongoing technological advances, retaining a leadership position requires constant innovation, dedication and flexibility across all spheres of the business. “Winning these awards is also testament to the important role of our estate agents, who are at the rockface of the business interacting with clients and bringing to each transaction their own unique and considerable experience, knowledge and interpersonal skills, combined with all the extensive benefits of the Pam Golding brand.” The award for best website is judged on a range of criteria, including features, design, appearance and finish, speed and compatibility. Says Noeleen Bruton, head of marketing for Pam Golding Properties: “Apart from our website, various international and local property portals, media advertising across all platforms and targeted marketing communications, our marketing strategy strongly incorporates the effective use of a multi-channel digital environment geared to add value to both sellers and buyers throughout their ‘journey’. “Underpinning the relevance and importance of digital reach is the fact that over 28 million South Africans are online every day, with the majority of their time spent on social media, followed by Google searches and emails.” Offering a broad range of real estate services, the Pam Golding Property group has a network of over 300 offices in sub-Saharan Africa as well a number of international offices. It also has a strategic alliance with one of the world’s largest property groups, Savills plc, and has access to its prestigious network of over 600 offices worldwide. For further information contact Pam Golding Properties on 021 7101700, email headoffice@pamgolding.co.za or visitwww.pamgolding.co.za. 