 Port Elizabeth - Employees from Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) marked the tenth anniversary of Nelson Mandela International Day at numerous charitable organisations ranging from youth centres, schools, children’s and old age homes, palliative care organisations, informal settlements, hospitals and more. This year TNPA once again called upon its employees to nominate worthy causes, particularly any for which they volunteer in their personal time. The Port of East London’s Mandela Day activities impacted close to 2000 beneficiaries at organisations nominated by various employees. Among these was a donation of 10 mattresses to Sivenathi Special Care Centre in Fort Beaufort in a joint project between TNPA and the ELIDZ - a positive spinoff of the five-year MOU signed by TNPA, the East London IDZ and the Buffalo City Municipality. Shelves were supplied and fitted in the library of Inyathi Primary School in Ziphunzana, Duncan Village, which has over 1200 learners. It was nominated by Basokazi Mthembu of the port’s Engineering department. Soup and bread were donated to Buffalo Flats Soup Kitchen, nominated by Kim Williams of the Finance department. A gas burner and groceries were donated to Mpundu Old Age Centre in Alice, nominated by Lizo Kibita of the Finance department. IT equipment was donated to Happy Youth Art Centre in Mdantsane, nominated by Vuyolwethu Makunga of the port’s Property department. Facilities were upgraded and repairs carried out to broken windows, switches and plugs at Funukwazi Training Centre in Mdantsane, nominated by Mlindi Sambane of the Engineering department. The port’s safety, health and environment department also conducted a clean-up of port grounds. Volunteers from the Port of Ngqura observed Mandela Day at Sinethemba Children's Care Centre in Korsten, Nelson Mandela Bay, which is home to 46 children between the age of three to 21 years, many of whom are orphaned or vulnerable. The TNPA Ngqura team carried out gardening, cleaning and laundry. The Port of PE volunteers visited Inn Safe Hands, which runs two day care centres – one in Shauderville and another in Salt Lake – as well as a children’s home accommodating 13 kids between the ages of 4 and 20 years. The other beneficiary was Emmanuel Haven, hosting 71 children between the ages of 3 and 6 years at a day care centre in Motherwell. The employees treated the kids to fun activities and also provided them with much needed equipment to the value of R150 000. Inn Safe Hands received teaching aids, educational material, books, mattresses, a gas stove and cylinders, a washing machine, a fridge, kitchen utensils, an iron, blankets and groceries. Emmanuel Haven received eight tyres for their combi, teaching aids, electrical stoves, a fridge, kitchen utensils and groceries. The employees also rolled up their sleeves by helping to clean the area and they cooked a meal for the children and staff.  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 