 Port Elizabeth - Efforts of the SAPS' Anti-Gang Unit (AGU) in eradicating the proliferation of illegal firearms in the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth and its surrounding clusters are certainly bearing the fruits, local police said. "In a space of 48 hours, four firearms were seized and suspects arrested," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "On Saturday morning, at about 03:15, the AGU members followed up on information received about a firearm at a house in Kawa Street, in Zwide. "On arrival at the house, members spotted a group of males sitting around a fire. "As they approached, one male got up and ran." Col Naidu said that police officers ran after him and when they were at the back of a house, the suspect, aged 32 years old, pointed a firearm at the police officer. "The officer fired one shot injuring him in his abdomen. He was arrested on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and pointing of a firearm." The serial number of the firearm was filed off. He is expected to appear in court soon. On Sunday, at about 09:40, the AGU were conducting disruptive searches in hotspot areas when they arrested a 21-year-old suspect at the corners of Brass and Schultz Streets in Bethelsdorp. "The suspect started running when he saw the police," Col Naidu said. "He was found in possession of a 9mm pistol with ammunition, which was reported stolen in Kabega Park in August 2005." Again on Sunday, at about 09:30, the AGU members followed up on information received and arrested two suspects in a VW Golf  7 vehicle along Highfield Road. "Suspect found in possession of a 9mm Lugar. The firearm was found on the floor of the vehicle. This firearm was reported stolen in Protea Glen in September 2015." On Monday, at about 09:15, the AGU members received information from the community regarding a person with firearm allegedly robbing people in William Slammert Drive in Bethelsdorp. "A 29-year-old suspect was arrested with a .22 pistol and ammunition," Col Naidu said. "He was arrested and detained for illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. "The ownership of the firearm is yet to be determined. "All these firearms will be sent to ballistics for analysis." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 