 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape Premier Lubabalo Mabuyane said the South African Police Service’s operations aimed at eradicating gang violence in the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth is showing good results, getting closer to silencing gang guns, end all criminal activities to keep communities safe. Early this month, the Premier said that the South African National Defense Force (SANDF) will not be deployed to the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth like what happened in the Cape Flats. "Mabuyane welcomed the information released by the South African Police Services showing arrest of four people suspected for murder, people suspected for drug related cases, five suspects for attempted murder, arrests for illegal possession of firearms, reduction of gang related murders, number of firearms, drugs, rounds of ammunition confiscated from local gangs in the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth," said his spokesperson, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha. "Premier Mabuyane congratulates the South African Police Services, community structures working with the police, and other law enforcement agencies involved in fighting gang violence and crime in the Nelson Mandela Bay for the good work they are achieving as per this report." Sicwetsha added that the Premier said these results show what can be achieved all over the province when the Police, community, and other law enforcement agencies work together to fight crime and violence in our communities. "Premier Mabuyane said all the people residing in the Northern areas of Port Elizabeth deserve to be safe and protected from violence, committing his provincial government to continue protecting citizens from criminals." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 