 Port Elizabeth - Swartkops police officers arrested seven suspects, aged between 17 and 28, for business robbery, possession of unlicensed firearm, possession of suspected stolen property, after information regarding the vehicle involved with robbery was circulated. "It is alleged that on Saturday, at approximately 22:00, a garage along Uitenhage Road, in Sidwell, Port Elizabeth, was robbed. The cashier was inside the shop when four suspects entered, one armed with a firearm and took money from the cash register, cigarettes and chocolates," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "They also demanded their cellphones and when they got no cellphones, the employees were instructed to lay down while they helped themselves with other items. "The suspects fled and while exiting they fired a random shot, no one was injured and when the cashier realized that the suspects fled the panic button was activated. "Information was later received that the suspects fled in a Toyota LDV." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that the information was circulated and while members from SAPS Swartkops were busy with patrols at Fun village, St Georges, they noticed the vehicle and managed to arrest seven suspects, recovered a firearm, two toy firearms, cigarettes, chocolates and biscuits. "All the suspects will appear in the Motherwell Magistrate's Court on charges of possession of illegal firearm and possession of suspected stolen property." In another unrelated robbery on Saturday, two suspects entered the shop with their faces covered and pointed the cashier and demanded money. According to police information, the robbery happened at around 21:25 at a garage in Uitenhage Road, Algoa Park, Port Elizabeth. "The suspects fled on foot with an undisclosed amount of cash. No one was injured during the robbery and the investigation is still ongoing," said Capt Janse Van Rensburg. "The South African Police Services would like to request garage owners to alert their employees and request them to be vigilant during the night when their businesses are vulnerable and are seen as easy targets." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 