 Bhisho -The Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature mourns untimely passing of the Member of the Provincial Legislature, Ncediwe Nobevu-Booi, who tragically passed away in an accident on Sunday. Eastern Cape Legislature Speaker, Ms Helen Sauls-August, extended condolences to the family, relatives of MPL Booi. “We have received with heavy hearts yesterday about the tragic death of our MPL, Nobevu- Booi. "The loss of a member of the Legislature at the beginning of the 6th Legislature has robbed the Legislature of a capable member who would make a  great contribution to the Legislature’s mandate of conducting vigorous oversight, intensifying public participation and raising awareness on law making,” said Helen Sauls-August. She also extends condolences to the African National Congress as her political party which has been robbed of a dedicated cadre. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the family, her political organisation during this difficult time,” she said, adding that the Legislature would visit the family at an appropriate time. The Speaker is initiating a process of establishing a Bereavement Committee in line with the Bereavement Policy of the Legislature. The committee will deal with preparations for the visit to the family, memorial and funeral services. Further details on funeral arrangements will be communicated in due course. The late MPL Ncediwe Nobevu-Booi joined the 6th Legislature after the 2019 General Elections deployed by the African National Congress. She served on various portfolio committees for the following Departments Sports, Recreation, Arts & Culture, Cogta,  and the department of Education. She was also a member of the Women’s Caucus and Special Programmes Committee. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  