 Humansdorp - Trilateral operations in the Humansdorp Cluster netted 92 people for crimes ranging from armed robberies to non-serious offences. "Twenty-eight of the 92 people were motorists that were fined for traffic offences totalling R39 000," sas olice spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. "On Monday, 24 June, Humansdorp Cluster resumed with the first phase of the Trilateral Operations with a roadblock on the N2 near Mentors Kraal off-ramp in Jeffreys Bay. "The noticeable arrests on the first day, during a roadblock were three foreign nationals, who were arrested for contravening the Immigration laws, among them a Lesotho national operating businesses mostly in KZN, whose permit showed that he left the country in January this year." He said that several other operations including crime prevention followed during the week, and on Saturday in Storms River was the last operation in the Humansdorp Cluster. "A total of 92 suspects were nabbed for crimes ranging from robbery with aggravating circumstances to drunk and disorderly. 28 of the 92 people, were motorists that were fined for traffic offences ranging from driving unroadworthy vehicles to driving vehicles without valid driving licences," Sgt Nkohli said. "One motorist was also nabbed for drunk driving. A total value of the traffice fines issued was R39 000." Humansdorp Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok appreciated the commitment of officials from various government departments. “There was a thorough searching of vehicles, especially trucks and taxis on the N2 stretch in all the trilateral operations. The aim of these operations is to curb crimes committed in transit in between provinces. These operations are expected to reduce crimes such as trafficking of illicit drugs, theft of motor vehicles, and illegal firearms," added Brigadier Lebok. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 