 King Williams Town - More than 60 suspects were arrested over the past weekend while police were busy with their routine patrols and stop searches in the Central Business area and in other areas within the King William’s Town Cluster policing area. "The operations led to the arrests of suspects, aged between 23 and 60 years, for crimes ranging from drunkenness, possession of stolen property, Common Robbery, Dealing in liquor without a licence, Possession of drugs, Murder, Theft, drunken driving, Business robbery, Common Assault and Malicious damage to property," said police spokesperson, Captain Siphokazi Mawisa. "The East London Tactical Response Team members, after receiving information from a community member about alleged drug dealing activity at a house, managed to arrest the suspect and recovered drugs. "Police went to a house and recovered sixty five (65) big sachets of tik, one hundred and seventy four (174) sachets of tik and thirty nine (39) mandrax tablets and undisclosed amount of cash. The suspect was charged for dealing in drugs." She said that these suspects would appear at various magistrate’s courts on Monday and Tuesday. King William’s Town SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier Luntu Ngubelanga, said that the police are committed in fighting crime and creating a secure environment for the community. "The police will continue to work actively towards preventing any form of corruption or criminal activities and to bring the perpetrators thereof to justice." He also thanked the community for sharing valuable information with SAPS encouraging them to report any criminal activities to 08600 10111. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 