 Port Elizabeth - Employees from Transnet National Ports Authority’s (TNPA) Ports of PE and Ngqura marked the tenth anniversary of Nelson Mandela International Day at a range of charitable organisations in Nelson Mandela Bay on Thursday. This year TNPA once again called upon its employees to nominate causes, particularly those that they volunteer for in their personal time. Altogether 36 employees from the Port of PE showed their care for children at two NGOs of their choice on this very special day. They visited Inn Safe Hands, which runs two day care centres – one in Shauderville and another in Salt Lake – as well as a children’s home accommodating 13 kids between the ages of 4 and 20 years. The other beneficiary was Emmanuel Haven, hosting 71 children between the ages of 3 and 6 years at a day care centre in Motherwell. They provide day care and transport for the kids between their homes and the centre. The employees did not only treat the kids to fun activities such as a jumping castle, a clown, face painting, balloon animals and playing games, but they also provided them with much needed equipment to the value of R150 000. Inn Safe Hands received teaching aids, educational material, books, mattresses, a gas stove and cylinders, a washing machine, a fridge, kitchen utensils, an iron, blankets and groceries. Emmanuel Haven received eight tyres for their combi, teaching aids, electrical stoves, a fridge, kitchen utensils and groceries. They responded to the specific needs identified by the NGOs. The employees also rolled up their sleeves by helping to clean the area and they cooked a meal for the children and staff. The day ended with the kids receiving party packs. “We are assisting these worthy organisations that provide much needed support to their communities, ensuring that the children are kept safe, off the streets and able to receive an early childhood education. Through them, the Port of PE strives to support the communities in and around Nelson Mandela Bay,” said Zinhle Small, Acting Corporate Affairs Manager of the Port of PE. The Port of Ngqura reached out to the Sinethemba Children’s Care Centre in Korsten and Erica House, a place of safety in Bethelsdorp, via 60 eager employees. They did not only help by cooking, cleaning, working in the garden and painting the facilities, but also handed over valuable items to these homes. These included a microwave, TV, groceries, mattresses, personal hygiene items, sanitary towels, blankets, a couch, a comfort pack for kids and paint to the value of R80 000. Sinethemba was established 19 years ago by a woman who was a street child herself for ten years. After being cared for by different foster parents, the hardships of being destitute as a child motivated her to build a home for the needy as she never wished her ordeals on someone else. This is true Madiba spirit! Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 