 Port Elizabeeth - Two men, aged 23 and 25, are expected in court in Port Elizabeth for allegedly hijacking and kidnapping an Uber driver over the weekend. "Speedy reaction to a ‘tip off’ led members of PE K9 unit and Flying Squad to the arrest of two suspects on charges of hijacking and kidnapping, after an Uber driver was allegedly hijacked and kidnapped during the early hours of Sunday," said police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. According to police information, at about 05:15, the complainant responded to a call out to pick up two clients at the Virgin Active gym in Humerail. "After he picked them up the two suspects, aged 23 and 35 years old requested to be driven to Colchester. When they reached Colchester, they directed him to drive onto a gravel road and then asked him to stop," she added. "The one suspect was armed with a knife and they threatened the complainant and robbed him of his personnel belongings. He was then shoved in the boot of his blue Swift Suzuki vehicle. "They drove off heading back towards Port Elizabeth where they allegedly attempted to sell the vehicle in Gelvandale." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that at about 08:25, PE K9 members received a ‘tip off’ of a suspicious vehicle in Fitchard Street, Helenvale. "Backup arrived from PE Flying Squad members and the suspects were confronted. The vehicle was searched and the Uber driver from Central, aged 23, was found in the boot of the car," she added. "A case of hijacking and kidnapping was opened at SAPS Kinkelbos and both suspects were detained. They will appear in the Motherwell magistrates’ court during the week. The complainant did not sustain any injuries during the incident." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the members from these units for their quick reaction to the information received. "Their professional conduct averted further harm and attack on the victim," he added. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 