  Jeffreys Bay - Another week on the front foot for the Rand, as the global market took a turn for the worse. It appeared as if many months of uncertainty with the Trade War were finally taking effect to the point where the Federal Reserve could no longer deny it. And yet, this was following some strong showing from the US Non-Farm Payrolls. Which does not really make sense, logically, as SA's market relies on the global economy... ...but let's look into the deeper detail of how it all happened.   Here were some of the biggest headlines from the week: The week began with the Rand opening trade around R14.20/$... On Friday, the US had created 224k jobs in June vs the 160k expected on Friday. The strong data threw the cat amongst the pigeons, as markets now question whether the FOMC have enough evidence to justify an immediate rate cut. It was going to be an interesting week, with Fed's Powell testifying to Congress likely to give us some insight into where things stand in the global economy. And Monday came with some warnings as to the global economy. Deutsche Bank announced 18000 job cuts, as they battle to save a sinking ship. They are going to exit the equity business and return to their German roots... ...a radical change, perhaps giving some clues as to the position of the banking industry at a whole. (Roll on the cryptocurrency revolution?) And Jerome Powell echoed some of economists expectations in his testimony, with emboldened market expectations of an inevitable interest rate cut at the Fed Interest Rate decision, and said that the US Jobs data had not changed their view on cutting interest rates. So, it would appear that it is time to mark your calendars for this: 30-31 July. Markets around the world reacted on Wednesday to this news, and after being flat on Monday & Tuesday, we saw a big move on Wednesday take us down to R13.85/$ by Thursday afternoon - the best rate we have seen for the Rand since February!  The news is seen as Emerging Market positive - but don't be fooled. This was a trigger for the markets to move after a couple of quiet days... ...and beware of the chance of a "Buy the rumour, sell the fact" approach that comes about with these expected economic results! The safest way is to trust the Elliott Wave counts, which are reliable in giving market direction... The Rand then closed Thursday under R14/$, on top of the Dollar once again!  In other news, here were some of the big headlines: Friday brought some more price action for the Rand as we saw a move back up to R14.04, before the market strengthened after the SA close to end the week back under R14/$... It had been quite a few days, and while a little jittery, a stronger week for the Rand with 20c gains!   Well, after another eventful week, what does this week hold in store? The Rand has started the week on a good note, continuing where it left off on Friday week, pushing stronger against the Dollar, Euro and Pound. Apart from political and global tensions, this week has some potential economic events that could provide triggers be market movers, the most important being US Retail Sales, Fed Chairman Powell's speech and SA Interest decision. It seems that the Rand has been almost unstoppable the past few weeks, but we know in this market that trends of any degree never continue ad infinitum. And that is the beauty of analyzing with the Elliott Wave Principle, which is the study of irrational yet predictable human behaviour in financial markets. Markets are moved by mass human sentiment. And by analyzing these sentiment patterns together with our unique combination of momentum, time and price-relationship studies, we are able to come up with where this sentiment is likely to take the market - in smaller and larger timeframes. And in so doing, answer the following questions: Being able to answer these questions allows you to make decisions ahead of time, based on an objective outlook... ... not based on gut feel, emotions or rational fundamentals. If our latest analysis is correct, we are in for an interesting couple of weeks, which will likely take many by surprise. Why not join us free for 14 days - andget a look at what we are talking about. Simply click the link below. Get 14 Days Access To Our Forecast Here I look forward to helping you make educated, informed and better forex decsions. To your success~ James Paynter  Take Your 14 Day Free Trial Now  The Dynamic Outcomes forecasting service uses Elliott Wave analysis (a study of mass human behaviour in financial markets) together with a combination of momentum, price relationship and time cycle studies to give an objective view of where the Rand is expected to head in time and price.  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 