 Mthatha - Stabilisation operations in the Eastern Cape province continue to bring more suspects to book. In Mthatha, various police units arrested nine more suspects in the town and surrounding areas in less than 72 hours for illegal firearms, ammunition and drugs. "During the operations, five firearms, 37 rounds of ammunition, three magazines, 44 mandrax tablets and 13 sachets of Tik were confiscated," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. He said that at Mpandela locality, in Bityi Mpandela, on Tuesday, at about 01:30, two men, aged 18 and 22 years of age, were arrested by the National Intervention Unit members after they were found in possession of a 7.65 pistol, two magazines and one round of ammunition. Meanwhile, Ngqeleni Vispol members arrested a 28-year-old for possession of a 9mm pistol with four rounds of ammunition at Ntsimbini locality on Wednesday, at about 23:00. "The Provincial Tactical Response Team have arrested a 36-year-old man for possession of a Z88 pistol with 19 rounds of ammunition at Dikidiki locality, in Tabase, on Tuesday, at about 23:50, while another 26-year-old man was also arrested at the same village after he was found in possession of a 9mm Norinco pistol with 12 rounds of ammunition on Wednesday, at about 03:00." Capt Soci added that the Mthatha Vispol members also arrested a 27-year-old man for possession of 11 Boss Mandrax, dagga bompies weighing 0,254kg and smoking pipes at Old Payne in Mthatha on Wednesday, at about 22:00, whilst they also arrested a 26-year-old man for possession of 26 Boss Mandrax and seven halves at Link locality, in Mthatha, on the same day, at about 02:30. "Madeira Vispol members also arrested a 24-year-old man after he was found in possession of seven and a half Boss Mandrax at Nelson Mandela Drive on Wednesday at about 13:45," Capt Soci added. "A 20-year-old man was arrested by the National Intervention Unit members after he was found in possession of a CZ83 pistol, one magazine, one round of ammunition, 39 bompies of dagga, 13 sachets of Tik and an undisclosed amount of cash. "He was arrested at Sibangweni locality in Libode on Thursday, at about 02h45." Capt Soci sad that all the suspects will appear before respective courts soon and will be profiled. "The firearms will be sent for ballistic testing to ascertain if they cannot be linked to other crimes committed in Mthatha and across the province and/or country." Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, lauded members for their efforts in the fight against crime that resulted in the arrest of the suspects and seizing of various items including firearms that are used to commit serious and violent crimes. “Stabilisation operations will continue to alleviate crime through intensive policing to affirm the authority of the State,” she said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 