 Port Elizabeth - Two gang members, Randy Malgas (32) and Sergio  Slabbert (31), both affiliated to the Kakmakers gang, were sentenced in the Port Elizabeth High court for murder, attempted murder, robbery aggravated, possession of a firearm and possession of ammunition. "On 12 December 2016, at about 17:00, Shaegen Goeda (28) was fatally wounded at a house in Ledger Street, Ext 36 in Kleinskool," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Another male (27) was also wounded in his right arm. Goeda was visiting at the house when Malgas and Slabbert and one other person arrived at the house in a blue Toyota Corolla. "All three males got out with firearms and started shooting." She said that Goeda sustained multiple gunshot wounds and died at the scene. "The Toyota Corolla was hijacked in Barberry Drive Ext 31, prior to the shooting. The vehicle was recovered in Main Road in Kleinskool on the same day." Col Naidu said that Malgas was arrested in January 2017 in Ferreira’s Grounds in Klenskool by members of SAPS Bethelsdorp Task Team and a shotgun was also recovered from the shack. "Slabbert was also arrested in January 2017 for another case of attempted murder and was positively linked to Goede’s murder," she added. "They remained in custody until the finalisation of the case." On Monday, they were both sentenced as follows: "All other sentences will run concurrent to the life sentence." Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Andries Swart, commended the investigating team and the prosecuting authority for a successful prosecution. “The sentences imposed upon criminals must be influenced by quality detective work and sound cooperation between investigators and prosecutors," added Maj Gen Swart. "The sentencing was as a result of an integrated approach by the different units within the criminal justice system. The convictions result in justice for the victims concerned and the community feel safer when the perpetrators are incarcerated.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 