 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality would like to put it on record that Afrisec is not operating on any municipal site and also that no payments have been made to Afrisec. "The Municipality continues to pursue both legal and boardroom engagements on the Afrisec matter," said Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Communications Officer, Mthubanzi Mniki. "Crime in Nelson Mandela Bay is of serious concern, as the latest Crime Statistics and the recent intervention visits by Minister of Police Bheki Cele and the Eastern Cape Premier Lubabalo Mabuyane have confirmed." Mniki said that during the aforementioned visits, it was highlighted in the briefing sessions with SAPS top brass that the non-operation of the CCTV cameras had had a negative affect on the fight against crime across the City. "Among South Africa Metros, Nelson Mandela Bay is second only to Cape Town in terms of its murder rate (annually, 54 out of a 100 000 people are killed)," Mniki added. "The non-operation of cameras and poor access control does not only negatively affect the City, but also exposes municipal employees and properties to criminality and harm. "This also compromises security on the strategic and critical municipal service infrastructure. "It is for these reasons that the Municipality is treating the matter as extremely urgent: extraordinary measures will be taken to make sure that the cameras are operational." Mniki said that it must be categorically stated that whatever process will be followed, will be within the confines of the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA). "MFMA does give guidance on processes to be followed in matters of great urgency." He said that National Treasury would also be engaged on this matter. "The Municipality needs to point out that the Afrisec matter has serious legal implications and would as such not like to discuss or interact on the matter through the media going forward. An update on the matter will be communicated through municipal communication platforms at an appropriate time." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.   