 Port Elizabeth – Arksoft is the new name of Bennetts Technologies. Shortly before Bennetts Technologies celebrated 25 years in business, Douglas Hayes, the Managing Director of Bennetts Technologies, bought the company from its founder, Gavin Bennett. Building on the solid foundation created by Gavin, Douglas and the team continue to transform the company by combining proven expertise in technology and business experience to ensure Arksoft’s success for many years to come. Doug says, “In the last year we began implementing a strategy for the future vision of the business. The first visible implementation was our move to Walmer. We have now rebranded the businesses to reflect the change of ownership.” Arksoft is a play on the words “software architecture” and a reflection on their new slogan – ‘Business Software Architects’. “We pride ourselves on developing software that is not only functional but also offers a great user experience. Users today are no longer satisfied with just any experience, they want something that they can enjoy interacting with. Our usability and UI/UX experience helps us to understand how to manage the process of user adoption and engagement with new technology,” says Doug. Arksoft not only designs and builds great software systems but they also provide strategic IT consulting services. These include; Business Analysis, Business Processes Mapping, Information Flows and Aligning Business Objectives with IT Strategy. Arksoft have a broad range of software development services. These include: “We have many years of project management experience and will guarantee the successful implementation of each project from conceptualisation through to implementation, skills transfer and after sales service,” adds Doug. Visit Arksoft at their new offices at 46 6th Avenue, Walmer, Port Elizabeth, or at  www.arksoft.co.za, call them on 0861 275 738 or email Douglas at  douglas@arksoft.co.za  today. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 