 Mthatha - In the early hours of Thursday morning, a multidisciplinary operation was successfully conducted at Indwe by members from the Vehicle Theft Unit from the Northern Cape (Prieska) and members of Indwe Visible Policing. "Two members of the Vehicle Theft Unit from Prieska, in the Northern Cape - Sgt Maseti and Sgt Magade, visited Mthatha, in the Eastern Cape. They were busy with the investigation of a syndicate involved in vehicle theft that occurred in the Northern Cape," said police spokesperson, Warrant officer Moitheri Bojabotseha. "The two members were alerted by their colleagues in Prieska informing them about a car theft and that the vehicle is on its way towards Indwe in the Elliot Cluster. "The members went to Indwe SAPS to ask for backup and planned to have a stop and search operation. "A white Isuzu bakkie with a Northern Cape registration did not want to stop when ordered to do so and the police chased after the vehicle." W/O Bojabotseha said that at the T-junction two unknown suspects jumped out of the vehicle and ran away. "The police chased them and a cross-fire occurred. Fortunately, no one was injured only a state vehicle got damaged. "The suspects disappeared and no arrest was made at this stage, but a vehicle was recovered," he said. "The SAPS is appealing to anyone who can assist the police with information not to hesitate but to contact D/Sgt Magade from Vehicle Theft Unit at Prieska, Northen Cape cell 060 4022 591 or phone the toll free number 0800 10111." Meanhile police are investigating cases of attempted murder and malicious damage to state property. "It is also possible that other charges will be added." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 