 Fort Beaufort - Periodic Maintenance on the R67 between Fort Beaufort and Seymour, in the Eastern Cape is improving road safety for pedestrians and motorists, SANRAL announced on Wednesday. The 14-month road maintenance project, valued at R151 million, which commenced last year is helping to create safer travel experiences for motorists. This road connects the two towns of Fort Beaufort and Seymour along the route and is a vital link between Fort Beaufort and Queenstown. “The installation of guard rails in the high fills as well as the construction of the Baddafort intersection has helped to improve the safety of the road. The stretch of the road was also fenced to prevent animals from crossing the road. This has made a significant change and has helped reduce the number of accidents on the road,” Mbulelo Peterson, SANRAL Southern Region Manager said. SANRAL took ownership of the R67, from Grahamstown to Queenstown, after it was declared a national road in 2012. As part of its mandate, SANRAL is responsible for maintaining this important road. The average daily traffic on this road ranges from between approximately 600 and 700 vehicles per day in both the North and South directions. The average percentage of heavy vehicles using this road is around 12.8 %. This means that approximately 89 trucks use the road in each direction every day.  SMMEs working on the R67 between Fort Beaufort and Seymour in the Eastern Cape. Thirty (30) SMMEs worked on the project and a total of 369 jobs were created. “This was regarded as one of the most important road development projects in the area, over the last three years, since it created job opportunities for 369 people from the local communities,” Peterson said. Nomfundo Maneli, a Seymour resident and worker at Zubra Cleaning Services and General Training said her role in the project was to erect fencing. She worked on the project for two months and during that period she had hoped to increase her CIDB rating to Level Two. “We received training on safety and security before we started with the project and the training taught me things that I thought I would never know,” Maneli said. Lwando Solani, who lives in Seymour and is a construction worker at Solenzo Trading and Projects CC worked on this project for three months. Before working on the project, he received one-week training on the installation of guard rails. “Since the maintenance I am happy to say that the road is now safe for pedestrians and motorists to use,” Solani said.  After completing the project Solani’s CIDB Level 2 increased to CIDB Level 3. Nolady Booi, the managing director at Azakhiwe Trading Enterprise and resident of Seymour was responsible for stone pitching. “We did the stone pitching in such a way that no water can come through,” Booi said. She worked on the project for two months thereafter her CIDB Level increased to Level 2. Target Enterprises (TEs) or Small Medium Micro Enterprises (SMME’s) who participated on this project had to be registered with the Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB). They were given tender training which was specific to their respective packages such as construction of stone pitching, installation of guard rails, erection of fencing and gabions. This training included a five-day intervention on Tendering for Construction Contracts and two extra days were provided for SMME’s that required additional assistance. “As a requirement for this project, it was important that tenderers were familiar with the specification that relates to the transformation of the construction industry and adhered to the policies of Reconstruction and Development programmes and other similar Government initiatives,” Peterson said. The Target Enterprise Management Team provided guidance and mentoring to the prospective tenders and an accredited training service provider was organised to provide the necessary training. SAQA accredited competency certificates and attendance certificates were awarded to the SMMEs. Practical training was also organised for Targeted Enterprises (TEs). This included a two-day theory training and three-day practical skills training. The training was for fencing, guardrails, gabion and stone pitching. All participants of the trainings attended that were deemed competent received SAQA accredited certificates. Main image: ROAD SAFETY: Periodic maintenance is improving road safety for pedestrians and motorists who travel on the R67 between Fort Beaufort and Seymour in the Eastern Cape. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 