 Mthatha - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape has given the Alfred Nzo District Municipality just seven days to provide water to the rural community of Ndarhala Village. "More than 25 years after South Africa became a democracy there are still rural Eastern Cape communities that have no access to clean running water and sanitation," said Baxolile Nodada MP - Alfred Nzo 2 Constituency Leader. "On Monday, 8 July 2019, I was joined by DA Councillor Nozi Mantshongo on an oversight inspection at Ndarhala Village near Mount Ayliff and was shocked to find the community’s only water source is the Umzimvubu River. "The residents share this water source with animals and carcasses of dead animals can also regularly be seen floating in the river. "Furthermore, chemicals are also polluting the water as the residents do their laundry in the river." Nodada  said that the water is unfit for human consumption and regularly is the cause of illness and in some cases even death within the community. "The Alfred Nzo District Municipality (ANDM), which is responsible for providing water, has failed to provide the people with their basic human right to water and sanitation. Currently the Municipality does not even assist the community with water trucks to alleviate their suffering," he added. "I have written to the ANDM Executive Mayor, Cllr Sixolile Mehlomakhulu, and requested that he furnish me, within 7 days, with a plan focussed on how the Municipality will ensure that this community is serviced with clean drinking water. "If he fails to do so, I will escalate the matter to the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC)." Nodada said that he will also ask DA Shadow MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Vicky Knoetze MPL, to take this matter up in the Eastern Cape Provincial legislature. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 