 King Williams Town - An integration of Task Team members comprising the Provincial Anti-Corruption, SIU, Vehicle Crime Investigation and Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) nabbed 10 men and women, aged between 32 and 65, in the early hours of Wednesday in the area of King Williams Town and Komga on allegations of fraud. "Among the arrested are two police officers from Kokstad and Steve Vukile Tshwete Police Station respectively," described police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "All the arrests follow after a complaint was received regarding possible illegally imported motor vehicles, which were registered and introduced into the National Traffic Information System (Natis) through a corrupt practice. "Involved in this illegal scheme are foreign nationals, who illegally imported vehicles and registered them as built-up with the help of government officials from the Department of Transport and SAPS." Brig Kinana said that these officials are believed to have abused their authority by manipulating the E-natis system by capturing fraudulent documents at the Komga Registering Authority. "The said documents would then be forwarded to the Help Desk in the Provincial Department of Transport for approval on the E-natis system. The arrested foreign nationals misrepresented that they bought the vehicles and then entered the Republic," he added. "They also misrepresented to the Department of transport and the South African Police Service that they built up South African vehicles and obtained false clearance certificates from SAPS members and false registration documents to the Department of Transport E-Natis system. "They did all this through a corrupt relationship with Government officials." He said that the suspects will be facing charges ranging from Money Laundering in terms of POCA Act 121 of 1998;  fraud, forgery and uttering in contravention of the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977; contravention of the Customs and Excise Act 13 of 2002 as well as the National Road Traffic Act, No 93 of 1996. "The Police have a reason to believe that misrepresentations were made to the Department of Transport, the South African Police Service and SARS in order to facilitate the processes of legalizing the said vehicles," Brig Kinana said. "All 10 suspects are expected to appear in Komga Magistrate Court on Friday. They are all in police custody until the date of their appearance." Acting Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Major General AP Swart, has commended the work of the Integrated Task Team, which spent sleepless nights in an attempt to close the net against those involved in corruption. "We want to re-iterate our commitment to root out fraud and corruption in the province. I am particularly happy that the investigation went further to nail even our own members who misrepresented the vision and mission of our organisation,” Major General Swart concluded. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 