 Port Elizabeth - Efforts to rid Port Elizabeth of drugs paid off when local police arrested a driver for possession of drugs following a tip-off. "The eradication and clamping down on the illicit drug trade continue to be the focus in the Mount Road cluster," expalined police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Specialised units working in the cluster are continuously patrolling hotspot areas to ensure the safety of our citizens as well as limiting the movement of criminals." She said that on Tuesday evening, at about 19:00, members of PE K9 unit responded to a ‘tip off’ of suspicious drug activity outside a house in William Slammert Drive in Bloemendal, Bethelsdorp. "As police neared the house, they noticed a bakkie driving off. The bakkie was followed from a safe distance and was eventually pulled over in Mrotyana Street in Kwanoxolo," Col Naidu said. "On searching the vehicle, members retrieved five bags, each containing 100 star mandrax (total 500). "The estimated street value of the drugs is R25 000." She said that the 36-year-old driver was arrested on a charge of illegal possession of drugs. He is expected to appear in court soon. Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the members for their quick reaction to the information received. "We will continue to enforce our authority on these criminals and we will not tolerate their illegal activities in our policing precinct. People who are involved in illicit drugs are harming society especially the youth and we will continue to crack down on these unlawful substances," added Maj Gen Patekile. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 