 Port Elizabeth -  Eastern Cape police on Tuesday condemned incidents of mob justice that were reported in the New Brighton area of Port Elizabeth. "The criminal behaviour of the community of New Brighton in Port Elizabeth, which led to the murders of two men, aged 23 and 29 years, in separate incidents has been strongly condemned by the South African Police Service in the Eastern Cape," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "A stern warning is issued to members of the community, not to take the law into their own hands." He said that it is alleged that the 23-year-old, Sinethemba Gwatya, was killed by a group of persons on Monday at Stofile Street, New Brighton. "At about 12:20, police were alerted to a vigilante murder and upon arrival a group of persons were found standing around the burning body of the deceased," Col Soci said. "Next to him a burnt toy gun and rocks were found." In another unrelated incident, 29-year-old Mandla Charles Hashe was killed by a group of persons on Tuesday morning at the corner of Mbilini and Sidindi Streets, New Brighton. "On police arrival at 10:00, a group of persons were found standing around the burning body of the deceased and they attempted to block the police members from approaching the deceased, but police managed to break through the crowd and secure the crime scene." Col Soci said that both the deceased had injuries in their upper bodies and tyres were used to burn their bodies. "At both scenes, no one was willing co-operate with the police and say, who killed them." He added that murder cases have been opened at New Brighton SAPS and further investigation is being conducted to establish the causes of the attacks. “We strongly condemn violent and unlawful behaviour and urge the community to stand together and stop these illegal actions. No one has the right to take the law into their own hands and under no circumstances will we allow this to happen. Those responsible for these murders will be arrested and brought before court,” said Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 