 Port Elizabeth - The National Prosecuting Authority yet again spared no mercy for three members of the Spotbouer gang and secured convictions in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday. "On 3 May 2016, Donovan’Staal’ Berry (47) was fatally shot in Barberry Drive Ext 31 in Bethelsdorp," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The first suspect Elgershin Goliath (27) was arrested on 20 May 2016 while the second suspect, Deon Harmse (26) was arrested on 15 June 2016 in Bethelsdorp. "The third suspect, Nealon Redhouse (21) was arrested on 8 July 2016 at a house in Stuurman Street in Bethelsdorp. He was arrested at that time for the murder of Aaliyah Tee (12). "Further investigations linked him to the murder of Berry. The fourth suspect, Shelton Malgas(25) was arrested in March 2017." Col Naidu said that in February 2018, Nealon Redhouse was sentenced to an effective 18 years for two other murders and a string of additional charges, for crimes committed in November 2015. In July 2018, both Redhouse and accused, Deon Harmse, were convicted and sentenced for the murder of Aaliyah Tee (12) and attempted murder, impersonating a police officer, housebreaking with intent to commit murder, possession of firearm and possession of ammunition. "A total of 89 years imprisonment were imposed on them of which 30 years will be effectively served. Redhouse will only start serving his 30 year sentence after he has completed serving his 18 year sentence for the murder cases committed in 2015." Col Naidu said that on 29 April 2019, Redhouse was convicted for illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition, which was confiscated by police when he was arrested in July 2016 in Stuurman Street in Bethelsdorp. "A 9mm pistol, bullet proof and two cellphones were recovered. This firearm was linked to several cases of murder and serious crimes of which he is already serving sentences for two murder cases," she added. "Redhouse was convicted to eight years imprisonment of which four years will run concurrent with the other sentences. Effectively, he will now be in prison for a period of 52 years." On Tuesday, the four accused, Goliath, Redhouse, Harmse and Malgas received the following verdicts : The case was remanded to 23 August 2019 for sentencing. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 