 Funds raised from the 2018 Annual Nelson Mandela Bay Mayoral Charity Golf Day were used to build three brand new classrooms at Elundini Full Service Primary School. Port Elizabeth – On Mandela Day on Thursday, the Mark Headbush Foundation officially handed over three brand new classrooms to Elundini Full Service Primary School in Bikana Street, Motherwell, Port Elizabeth. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, was in attendance to officially unveil the classrooms that will assist with easing the overcrowding and improve learning conditions at the school. Nelson Mandela said, “Education is the great engine of personal development. It is through education that the daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, that the son of a mine worker can become the head of the mine, that a child of farm workers can become the president of a great nation. It is what we make out of what we have, not what we are given, that separates one person from another.” Elundini currently has 885 pupils in school buildings that were built in 1990 and are now extremely congested. It was the realization of the dream of Principal, Ms Ntsiki Bono, that one day the Mark Headbush Foundation would be able to help her school. “Our school is a Full-Service School which means we admit learners who have learning and physical disabilities. They need special attention and specialised support programmes. The congested classrooms impaired the pace of learning for all the children. I, as a principal, felt we needed to find a way of relieving this congested environment by getting additional classrooms," Ms Bono. "I knocked on a number of doors seeking help until I met Mr Mark Headbush and his team at Dumani Primary School here in Motherwell in a handover of classrooms function where they assisted the school with classrooms. After pleading with them to assist Elundini they agreed to help us. "This has been a very lengthy process of four years in total with a number of challenges we have experienced to get to where we are today. We are so delighted, so ecstatic to see the big beautiful classrooms on the school premises. We promise that they will be used for the purpose intended for and will definitely add to the value and success of the school." The three new classrooms have been expertly build by Fischer Profile Engineering on a solid concrete foundation, kindly sponsored by Scribante. Other major sponsors of the 2018 Annual Nelson Mandela Bay Mayoral Charity Golf Day were Sanlam, Landis & Gyr, Engen, Vodacom and Sasfin. Nelson Mandela Bay mayor, Mongameli Bobani, unveiled the classrooms in what was described as a joyful ceremony on Thursday, 18th of July. Special guests and sponsors were entertained by a jazz band and items from Elundini’s school choir and dancers, with Mr Stan Mosia presiding as Master of Ceremonies and Reverend Nontsikelelo Komani offering the Blessing and later on, the Benediction. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani expressed his excitement about the work that has been done. "On behalf of the only City named after Tata Madiba, we would like to commend the Foundation for this sterling work. Nelson Mandela valued education immensely and understood that it is the perfect weapon that can be used to change the world for the better. As the City through the Mayoral Golf Day, we are fully behind this programme and will continue to support this noble cause by Mark Headbush Foundation". The Mark Headbush Foundation was formed in Nelson Mandela Bay in 2005. The Foundation identified the cause of Early Childhood Development (Grade R to Grade 3) as their main area of focus. It is critical to development of our children to enable them the make a positive impact in our country. The Mark Headbush Foundation is driven by its core value to build a better future for all children and prepare them to be self-assured in engaging with their future challenges and accomplishments. Each year it holds the Annual Nelson Mandela Bay Mayoral Charity Golf Day, where every cent that is raised goes directly to improving education facilities in Nelson Mandela Bay. “The Foundation seeks to work in partnerships with other like-minded institutions to protect children from the negative affects of poverty and inequality so that they may become more active members of their communities and be able to contribute to the devolpment of the a more prosperous and equitable society,” says Mark Headbush. The 2019 Annual Nelson Mandela Bay Mayoral Charity Golf Day will be held at the PE Golf Club – The Hill on Friday, 11th October 2019. Individuals, businesses or corporates who are interested in getting involved as sponsors or even just joining in the fun by booking a four-ball should contact Jimmy Headbush on jimmy@endaweni.com or Mark Headbush Foundation CEO, Beulah Lumkwana on 082 200 3735. You can find out more about the Mark Headbush Foundation by visiting their website markheadbushfoundation.org.za or following them on social media: www.facebook.com/MarkHeadbushFoundation or www.instagram.com/markheadbushfoundation twitter.com/MarkHeadbush. Main image: Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, cutting the ribbon alongside Mrs Mark Headbush and Mrs Beulah Lumkwana (Mark Headbush Foundation CEO) Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 