 Port Elizabeth - Since the inception of the Anti-Gang Unit at the beginning of July 2019 in the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth, significant arrests and recoveries have been noted, police said. "The latest successes emanate during this weekend when two firearms, three toy guns and an air rifle were confiscated," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "During the early hours of Sunday morning, the Anti-Gang Unit arrested a 28-year-old suspect in possession of a stolen firearm. "While conducting stop and search operations in Langdon Street in Bethesldorp, members saw two males running down Shaheed Street Ext 36 in Bethelsdorp." She said that one of them was seen with a firearm in his hand. "A foot chase ensued and the suspect was seen tossing the firearm in the yard. He was later apprehended," Col Naidu said. "The PX firearm was reported stolen in Durban Central in April 2019. "He was detained on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. "He is expected to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates’ court on Monday." She said that while conducting several disruptive operations in these areas, the Anti-Gang Unit confiscated three toy firearms from a house in Cenonia Close in Bethelsdorp and an air rifle, which was found hidden between shacks in Kobus Road in Gelvandale. "In another incident, on Friday, the Anti-Gang Unit also confiscated a 9mm Norinco firearm and ammunition from a house in Goliath Street in Helenvale," Col Naidu added. "The serial number of the firearm was filed off and the firearm was confiscated for further investigation and analysis. "Since Monday last week, until Sunday morning, a total of 12 firearms were recovered of which nine were reported stolen." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga has vowed to clean up the Northern Areas of criminal gang activities. "We can see that the Anti-Gang Unit is making an impact in these areas. We will continue with our vigorous and high density policing in these areas. Houses of suspected drug dens and criminals will be constantly visited," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. "We also make a clarion call to the communities in these areas to work with us to ensure that their areas are safe." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 