 East London - The Capitalist Party of South Africa (ZACP)on Tuesday said that it takes note of Health Minister, Zweli Mkhize’s, comments regarding the National Health Insurance (NHI) where he reportedly stated that people wouldn’t be allowed to choose whether or not they want to see a specialist, even if they can afford it. "Minister Mkhize decide where, when, and how they are allowed to work, as well as whom they are allowed to treat," said ZACP spokesperson, Gideon Joubert. "This is clearly unconstitutional and outright tyrannical. "It goes against the very fibre of doctor-patient relationships and confidentiality, and places the responsibility of deciding who deserves critical healthcare in the hands of people least qualified to make such a decision: bureaucratic government administrators."  Joubert added that the ANC government "is guilty of chronic and criminal mismanagement of the public healthcare sector, causing the collapse of healthcare in rural areas, where it is all but non-existent". "Many tertiary hospitals are so mismanaged that they cannot even run critical departments, and are forced to operate them at severely reduced capacities or shut them down entirely," he said. "The government now seeks to extend this mismanagement into the private sector. The end result of the NHI will be to destroy healthcare, both public and private, in South Africa. "It will exacerbate and accelerate the departure of skilled doctors, nurses, and other professionals from our country. Critical skills we can ill afford to lose, and will not be able to replace. "The NHI is an atrocious policy disguised by a paper-thin veneer of social justice and public good in order to deceive the citizens. For the sake of all South Africans, we cannot allow this monstrosity to pass." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 