 Port Elizabeth - The Minister of Trade and Industry, Ebrahim Patel, second left, and Deputy Minister, Fikile Majola, left, visited Isuzu Motors South Africa on Thursday whilst in Port Elizabeth on business. During this courtesy visit the Ministers met with Isuzu CEO and MD, Michael Sacke, third left, to discuss key priorities relating to the business. With them are Elvis Hermans, Isuzu Motors South Africa Executive Human Capital, Denise van Huyssteen, Executive Corporate Affairs, Business Strategy and Legal and Celestin Ndhlovu, Manager, Business Strategy. Isuzu Motors South Africa was launched in January 2018 when Isuzu Motors Limited took over the company's light commercial vehicle operations as well as the balance of shareholding in the trucks business. Since then the company's main priority has been to ensure the sustainability and long-term growth of its operations. Last year the company's light commercial vehicle sales grew by 8.7% versus the prior year, while year to date its sales are up by 8.6%. Also, the company retained its leadership position in the medium and heavy commercial segments of the market for six years in a row. Isuzu Motors Limited has more than 100 years of manufacturing experience, selling vehicles in over 120 markets and manufacturing operations in 30 countries with joint venture partners. South Africa is the first commercial and light commercial vehicle manufacturing operation outside of Japan in which Isuzu has a 100% shareholding. This was the Minister's first visit to Port Elizabeth since his appointment as Minister of Trade and Industry about two months ago. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 