 Port Elizabeth - Police in Port Elizabeth are investigating a case of murder after a truck driver was fatally shot at the Coega SEZ in an apparent hijacking. "The 53-year-old Absalom Mnisi was shot and killed on Monday night when a group of about seven suspects hijacked a truck he was driving near Coega, Nelson Mandela Bay," said Captain Andre Beetge. "It is believed that he was flagged down by the suspects wearing reflective jackets and using a white vehicle with a blue light at about 19:00. A motorist passing by spotted the truck and alerted the company to which the truck belongs. The tracking device was activated and the truck recovered by police in Makepeace Crescent in Perseverance. "At about 20:00, a SAPS flying squad vehicle that followed the tracking signal found the White Volvo truck hidden behind a warehouse, and on entering the premises, seven suspects fled from the truck into the warehouse." He said that on searching the warehouse, police managed to arrest five suspects with ages ranging from 27 to 41 years of age, but the remaining two suspects managed to evade arrest. "The truck and it's cargo of almost 23 tonnes of scrap copper valued at R1,9 million and a Mini Cooper vehicle were recovered and impounded for forensic analysis," Captain Beetge said. "On the scene, police also found a white Ford Ranger vehicle (a rental vehicle), a blue light, a reflective jacket, a large mobile radio frequency/signal blocker and seven cellphones that are believed to have been used during the hijacking by the suspects. "By 09:30 on Tuesday morning, the body of Mnisi was spotted by a passing motorist on an embankment close to Coega CBD on the N2 freeway and alerted police. He was found with gunshot wounds to his back and neck." Capt Beetge said that murder and hijacking cases have been opened and are being investigated by the Eastern Cape Provincial Organised Crime Investigation team. "Any person that could assist police with this investigation can contact Lt Col Willie Mayi at 082 697 5914," she described. "All five suspects have been charged with possession of stolen property and police will investige their link and role with the hijacking and murder." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 