 Port Elizabeth - Justice was finally served when two armed robbers were sent to prison for robbing a 30-year-old Port Elizabeth woman on Christmas Day back in 2017. "On 25 December 2017, at 05:15, the complainant was standing at a bus stop at Khalendula Street, in NU 12, Motherwell, when the two accused approached her and robbed her of her cellphone - value R4 889," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Ayanda Skhoboyi, 24-years-old, produced a fire-arm and his accomplice, Masixole Dyantyi, 22 years old, brandished a knife. "The woman screamed and her husband came to her rescue. "He chased accused Skhoboyi with his car and when accused pointed him with the fire-arm he knocked him over." She said that Skhoboyi got trapped under the car. "A police official from Motherwell was on his way to work when he stopped and assisted the couple. Skhoboyi was arrested and 9mm firearm, with its serial number filed off, was seized," described Col Naidu. "The second accused, Dyantyi was later arrested and the stolen cellphone recovered. "They appeared in court and was subsequently released on bail." On Thursday, they were sentenced in the Motherwell Regional court. "Skhoboyi was sentenced to an effective 14 years imprisonment for armed robbery and illegal possession of a firearm while Dyantyi was sentenced to eight years in prison for armed robbery." Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Dawie Rabie, commended the investigating and arresting officers as well as the husband of the complainant. "The punishment meted out to these criminals is fitting and just as they targeted a vulnerable and helpless woman," added Maj Gen Rabie. "Had it not being for the quick reaction of her husband, these accused would have gotten away with their crime and would have continued with their criminal activities." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 