 Port Elizabeth - Three persons were shot and killed on Monday night in unrelated, but suspected targeted style killings, Port Elizabeth police said. "In the first incident, the 28-year-old Chuma Sinethemba Mhuluhulu was shot by unknown attackers in Mhleza Street, Kwadwesi, just after 18:00," described police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "After shots were heard by persons in the vacinity, the body of Chuma was found on the pavement. "She was fatally wounded in the head and no valuables were taken from her. "She was also 6 months pregnant according to persons that know her." He saidd that in the second incident, 29-year-old Baphethuxolo Mgengo was shot and killed in Kayingo Street, Kwadwesi, at about 19:00. "Mr Mgengo was sitting with two friends in a shack when two unknown armed males kicked open the door and dragged him outside where he was shot numerous times by them," Capt Beetge said. "The two friends managed to flee unhurt during the incident." In the last incident, at about 00:05 on Tuesday morning, 25-year-old Zamuxolo Ndwayana was shot and killed at his home in Mbilane Crescent, Kwazakele. "He was asleep and woken up by unknown suspects knocking and calling him at his door. On opening the door and going outside, he was shot and killed by his attackers." Capt Beetge said that the three incidents are not linked and no valuables were taken during the murders. "Three murder cases were opened and are investigated by the Eastern Cape Provincial Organised Crime Unit," he added. "Any person with information that could assist police with these investigations can contact Lt Colonel Willie Mayi at 082 697 5914." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 