 East London - The Managing Director of Flat-Foot Engineering in East London, Mr Max Mabuti says his company is looking forward to exploring export and investment opportunities during an Outward Trade Mission (OTM) to New Delhi and Mumbai, India organised by the Department of Trade and Industry (the dti) from 15-19 July 2019. Flat-Foot Engineering forms part of the twenty-seven companies that received financial support from the dti’s Export Marketing and Investment Assistance Scheme (EMIA) to participate in the mission; to increase trade of value added goods and services into the Indian market. Mabuti says he is excited about the opportunity that the dti offers him through the mission to travel to India where he is hoping to get investors for his electro-mechanic projects in South Africa. The company which has branches in Mthatha, Port Elizabeth, and Johannesburg provides manufacturing and installation of hot water pressure vessels and boiler inline filtration system services. “Currently we are trading domestically and the trip to India presents an opportunity to realise our ambitions of growing our footprint beyond South African borders by expanding our market to other continents especially in Asia. "We will be using the week-long event to network with businesspeople from that side with the hope of finding potential suitors who can be interested in investing in our company,” says Mabuti. Mabuti points out that he has secured trade leads which he plans to follow through when he lands in India and says he is optimistic that they will yield positive outcomes that will assist his company to increase production and create more job opportunities. Presently the firm which was established in 2006 employs 60 people. The Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Slovo Majola, says that the upcoming mission will afford South African companies with key insight into the Indian culture of business, in pursuance of diversifying South Africa’s export basket into India and globally. “India boasts a population of over one billion people and it is also the 12th largest importer and the 17th largest exporter in value, presenting significant trade opportunities for South African firms. "It is estimated that the country imports a total of USD400 billion of goods and services annually and this presents substantial opportunities for South Africa in the areas of trade in value added goods and services,” says Majola. The mission will comprise of a trade and investment seminar, business-to-business meetings and site visits. Companies that will participate in the mission are operating in the agro-processing, electro-technical and defense. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 