 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality says it is committed to boosting its economy and create sustainable jobs and a good road network is one of the critical pillars in the realisation of this important deliverable. It said that it is for this reason that the Municipality Roads & Transport Directorate is investing money on the acquisition of new trucks that will be used in the maintenance of roads. According to the Metro, these trucks will be used to load asphalt (tar) and gravel materials. The materials are used in re-gravelling and maintenance for example: potholes, waterworks, sewerage and electricity road reinstatements. The trucks have been equipped with crew and cabs to ensure the safe transporting of our employees as per the Occupational Health & Safety Act. "This is a journey we have taken as this administration to boost our fleet for accelerated services delivery to the residents of the Metro. We promised after passing the people's budget, that we will hit the ground & we are doing that. We have spent R5 million to boost our fleet," said Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani. "We would like to ensure our residents that with these five 7t tipper trucks in addition to our fleet, will improve turn around time from our teams in responding to complaints logged with the call centre. "My gratitude goes to the Infrastructure & Engineering Directorate for their continued contribution to development & service delivery in the Bay."  Member of Mayoral Committee for Roads and Transport, Cllr Rosie Damminds added, "The acquisition of these new trucks will be used in the maintenance of roads than to outsource municipal services resulting more millions from the ratepayers. "With time, we will add more fleet to allow the municipality to improve quality service delivery". The Metro urged communities to help it in ensuring that it delivers products and services that will make a difference in the lives of residents. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 