 Port Elizabeth - Intensive operations by the Anti-Gang Unit within the Nelson Mandela Metro this weekend yielded positive results. "Throughout the weekend, the unit with Metro police focused on illegal drugs and firearms in the Motherwell, Uitenhage, Humansdorp and Mount Road clusters," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Over 16 suspects were arrested within 48 hours for serious crimes ranging from murder, attempted murder, rape, house robbery, housebreaking, illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition as well as assault on police and malicious damage to property." Col Naidu said that drug-related arrests were effected in Kamesh, Zwide, Humansdorp and the northern areas. "Drugs such as dagga, mandrax and tik were seized. A 9mm pistol, ammunition and a gas gun was also seized. Nine illegal immigrants were also arrested in the operations," she added. "A firearm out of the hands of a criminal, is one less crime committed. During the early hours of Saturday morning, at about 03:15, AGU members followed up on information received about a firearm at a house in Kawa Street in Zwide. "On arrival at the house, members spotted a group of males sitting around a fire. As they approached, one male got up and ran. Police ran after him and when they were at the back of a house, the suspect, aged 32-years-old, pointed a firearm at the police officer." Col Naidu said that the officer fired one shot injuring him in his abdomen. "He was arrested on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and pointing of a firearm. He is expected to appear in court soon." Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga has warned criminals operating in the Metro that "there is no place for them to conduct their illegal criminal activities. "We are squeezing their spaces and the results are evident that we are serious in cleaning up these areas. We are and will continue to break the backbone of the gang environment until all people in these areas are and feel safe," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  