 Willowvale - The Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, has expressed shock at the untimely death of seven members of one family, who were burnt beyond recognition after their house caught fire. "Willowvale police responded to a call at about 4am on Thursday morning that a house at Mnqayi locality, Ciko Village, in Willowvale, was burning," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "Thus far, preliminary investigations suggests that a 56-year-old mother, children including a 28-year-old daughter and five other younger siblings, aged between three and 14,  including a set of twins were sleeping when the house was caught alight. "One of the two young men, who had been sleeping in a different house, heard a scream from the house. "As they went to investigate, they discovered that the house was burning. None of the people could be rescued at the time." Lieutenant General Ntshinga described the incident as very tragic and unfortunate. She called on all stakeholders to consider lending a hand to the family and committed to ensure that an in-depth investigation is undertaken in order to get at the root cause of the blaze. "Police have registered an inquest docket for investigation into the circumstances that led to the incident. The identities of the deceased are still being withheld until all their relatives are officially informed," said Brig Kinana. "Police are appealing to anyone who may have information on the incident, to please make contact with the Willowvale Police Station or call the Crime Stop number 08 600 10 111." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 