 Port Elizabeth - British Airways, operated locally by Comair, on Tuesday announced that it will be increasing flights to Port Elizabeth and other towns in mid September. The flights are available for booking with immediate effect. In total British Airways, will operate 34 additional flights a week on routes serviced from Johannesburg, which includes Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth as well as between Cape Town and Durban. Shaun Pozyn, Head of Marketing for British Airways (operated by Comair) says: “For more than two decades, we have always proudly served South Africa, its people and its businesses. "Having more frequent flights, will mean more choice for tourists and business travellers alike, giving our customers more flights to the destinations they love, under the British Airways brand. 'The routes on which we are increasing frequency are already very popular and by introducing more frequency on these routes, we will give customers even more flexibility and more choice”. Apart from the upped frequency on these selected routes, British Airways will continue to service the various destinations that they travel to in sub-Saharan Africa, those being Harare, Livingstone, Victoria Falls, Windhoek and Mauritius. As always, British Airways, Executive Club customers travelling within southern Africa on British Airways (operated by Comair) will have the added benefit to earn Avios and Tier points, which allow for added benefits and services, some of which include entry into the award-winning SLOW lounges, fast-tracking check-in, free seat selection and meal preferences which are all dependent on one’s Executive Club status. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 