 Makhanda - Efforts by Eastern Cape police to ensure that both locals and visitors to the recently concluded 2019 National Arts Festival in Makhanda were and felt safe bore results. Ahead of the National Arts Festival, Eastern Cape Police Provincial, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, affirmed that the SAPS was ready to police the National Arts Festival 2019 ,which resumed on 27 June 2019 to 07 July 2019. "Sufficient members were deployed and tasked to do crime prevention and visibility operations in and around Makhanda to ensure the general safety of all those visiting the town," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "For the duration of the festival, seven suspects were arrested for charges ranging from possession of stolen vehicle (2), theft (1), driving under the influence of liquor (3) and possession of drugs (1). "Police also confiscated the following items; 64 x knives, 1x toy gun, 24 dagga bompies and 10 fake CDs. Various liquor outlets were visited and closing times were strictly monitored by the police." All the suspects have appeared in the Makhanda Magistrates Court and their cases will continue. “We would like to thank the members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) for going an extra mile in ensuring a safe and secure environment for the community and all visitors to the Grahamstown Arts Festival," said Lt Gen Ntshinga. "All the members deployed to police the festival conducted themselves with dignity and in a befitting manner which is consummate to their responsibility as law enforcement agents." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 