 Port Elizabeth - After an embarrassing defeat by the African National Congress (ANC) in the 2019 Eastern Cape Provincial Elections last week, the Democratic Alliance (DA) on Wednesday got some consolation after it retained two wards in Wednesday's Nelson Mandela Bay by-elections. The DA claimed two by-election victories in Nelson Mandela Bay's wards 35 and 37. The by-elections were the result of the removal of then rogue DA councillors, Trever Louw, who represented Ward 35, and Neville Higgins, who represented Ward 37. "In doing so the party took a step closer to regaining control of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality," said Nqaba Bhanga, DA Eastern Cape Provincial Leader. "The DA’s Ward 35 candidate, Helga van Staaden, emerged victorious and obtained 83.3%  of the vote. "Georgina Faldtman, the DA’s candidate in Ward 37, also won through and obtained 55.4% of the votes cast." Bhanga said that this endorsement from the voters proves that the DA remains on track to return to government in Nelson Mandela Bay. The DA, which won the 2016 Local Government Elections - albeit, without a clear majority, and its coalition partners were running the Bay until August of last year when unexpected political manuevaring, saw the ANC and its partners return to power. "Under the ANC/EFF/UDM coalition of corruption service delivery in the City, and especially the Northern Areas, has come to a virtual standstill," Bhanga said. "The residents of this City have suffered long enough under the ANC/EFF/UDM coalition of corruption and we are confident that a DA-led government will shortly return to power in Nelson Mandela Bay." Meanwhile, the ANC in the Bay's Andile Lungisa said that while it loast in the by-elections, it had made a "good showing". Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 