 Bhisho - The ANC Caucus in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature on Tuesday announced that the first sitting of the Sixth Term of the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature will take place on Wednesday. "This sitting is scheduled to take place at 10:00 on Wednesday at the Raymond Mhlaba Chamber in the Eastern Cape Legislature (Bhisho)," described ANC Chief Whip in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature, Fundile Gade. He said that at this sitting, Eastern Cape Members of Provincial Legislature (MPLs) are due to be sworn in, followed by the subsequent appointments: -              Election of Premier -              Election of Speaker -              Election of Deputy Speaker -              Swearing-in of the Premier -              Appointment of NCOP Permanent Delegates -              Appointment of the Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson of Committees -              Appointment of the Chief Whip and Deputy Chief Whip of the Ruling Party -              Appointment of the Chief Whip of the Official Opposition -              Designation of Leaders of Parties -              Designation of the Leader of Government Business. Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, the ANC's Eastern Cape Chairperson, and its Premier Candidate of the province, is expected to become new Premier. Mabuyane replaced former Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, as ANC Eastern Cape Chairperson, at a tense provincial congress that was held in October 2017. The conference suffered from delays as well as violence that saw around eight delegates in hospital. Mabuyane was then tipped to replace his one-time boss as the next Premier as the party's candidate for Premier. He was understood to be backing Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Jacob Zuma, which Ramaphosa did after protracted negotiations with Zuma failed and Zuma was forced to resign. Masualle on the other hand was understood to be backing Zuma's ex-wife, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, who lost to Ramaphosa at the ANC National Elective Conference in December 2017. A group of ANC supporters tried unsuccessfully to challenge Mabuyane's election. He was later appointed Eastern Cape Finance, Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism. This year, he tabled his maiden budget as MEC for Finance. While Mabuyane becomes the new Eastern Cape premier, Masualle is now expected to make his way to represent the party at the National Assembly. The ANC in the Eastern Cape welcomed his nomination for Premier this month after the 2019 National and Provincial Elections. "The ANC Caucus wishes to inform all stakeholders that this ceremony is open to all members of the public, and invites citizens to come and witness the installation of the Legislative Public Representatives that they democratically voted into power in the recently held 2019 General Elections." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 