 Port Elizabeth - The African Christian Democratic Party in Nelson Mandela Bay has announced their candidates for the upcoming by-elections in ward 35 and 37 on Wednesday. The by-election is result of the removal of then rogue Democratic Alliance (DA) councillors, Trever Louw, who represented Ward 35, and Neville Higgins, who represented Ward 37. According to ACDP Nelson Mandela Bay Councillor, Lance Grootboom, Louw and Higgins turned their backs on the community "and sided with the corrupt ANC coalition in Nelson Mandela Bay". "Our candidates for ward 35 and ward 37 are Yolanda van Sensie and John Stone," said Grootboom. A community activist, Yolande has been living in Bloemendal for 43 years and is married with five children. “The reason I am standing for election as a Ward Councillor is to improve the standard of living of all who live in Ward 35," she said. She said she has identified the following key priorities that affects residents of Ward 35: "I have a passion for people and I assure you that if I am elected as your Councillor, I will do my best to serve you in whichever way I can,” Yolande added.  Meanwhile, the party's Ward 37 candidate, John Stone, grew up in Schauderville and Helenvale. He is a qualified plumber by trade and has a Diploma in Theology and Practical Ministry. He is married and has two children and three grandchildren. “I am passionate about people’s wellbeing and that is the reason that I am standing as a candidate in Ward 37. My intention is to serve the residents of ward 37 and to ensure that residents of ward 37 recieves the services they deserve," he described. Stone's key priorities for ward 37 are the following: "Vote ACDP for a community you can be proud to call your home! Vote for the community you deserve, a place that is clean, safe and well cared for," said Grootboom. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 