 Uitenhage - Kamesh police in Uitenhage are on the hunt for suspects involved in two separate shooting incidents that were reported within six hours of each incident in the area. "It is alleged that on Tuesday, at about 21:00, a 28-year-old male was fatally wounded while he was seated inside a VW Golf in Hen Street, Rosedale (Kamesh), with two other males when an unknown white Isuzu bakkie allegedly fired several shots at the stationary vehicle," described police spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. "It is further alleged that the driver of the VW Golf, Dwayne Vogel (28), drove away from the scene, but his vehicle came to a halt at the corner of Muscovy and Kea streets, Kamesh. "He passed away at the scene." Sgt Nkohli said that he sustained three gunshot wounds in the back. "One of the occupants, a man sustained a gunshot wound in the lower part of his body. The third victim escaped unhurt," he added. "At this stage, a motive for the attack is unknown. Police are investigating cases of murder and attempted murder." In a separate incident, on Wednesday, at about 03:00, a 22-year-old man alleged that he was asleep in the bedroom of his home in Pelican Street, Rosedale (Kamesh), Uitenhage, when several gunshots woke him up. "The complainant hid when some of the bullets hit his bedroom window and after the gunshots stopped, he heard a sound of a vehicle speeding away from the scene," Sgt Nkohli said. "No person was injured during the incident. Police are investigating a case of attempted murder. "At this stage, there is no link between the two incidents and investigations are continuing." He appealed to anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects in any of the two incidents to contact the nearest police station or Crime Stop at 08600 10111. "Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated strictly confidential." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. 