 Port Elizabeth - Efforts by Port Elizabeth police to reduce trio crimes in the Mount Road Cluster yielded results after the Cluster Trio Task team arrested six house robbery suspects within 24 hours for crimes committed in two separate house robberies. "In the first incident, at a house in Bongo Street in Helenvale, Port Elizabeth, it is alleged that on Saturday, at approximately 23:25, the complainant was sleeping when he woke up with a loud banging and kicking on the front door," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "The complainant kept quiet as the suspect called him by name and instructed him to open the door. "One suspect then forcefully removed the burglar bars at a window and gained entrance to the house." She said that the complainant was pointed at with a firearm and he was forced to unlock the front door and gate. "Four suspects entered and they ransacked the house and fled with jewellery and two cellphones valued at approximately R25 500," Capt Janse Van Rensburg added. "The incident was only reported to the police on Tuesday and within 24 hours, the Mount Road Cluster Trio Task team arrested three suspects, aged between 23 and 25, in the area of Helenvale, for the robbery." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that in another incident, during the early hours of Wednesday, at about 01:15, the complainant, aged 29, was sleeping when his girlfriend woke up after a loud banging on the door. "She went to the front door and a suspect demanded that she opens the door so that he could buy cigarettes. The complainant came to the door and informed the suspect to leave, but he kept on demanding to come in to buy cigarettes," she described. "When the complainant opened the door, three suspects forced their way into the house. "The suspects took two pairs of tekkies, soccer jacket, a few packets of cigarettes and a small amount of cash." Capt Janse Van Rensburg said that the suspects are known to the complainant and just after 09:00 on Wednesday, the three suspects were arrested. "The stolen property is not yet recovered but the investigation is still ongoing. The incident took place in Virgo Street in Helenvale." She said that all the suspects will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court during the week on charges of house robbery. Mount Road Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, lauded the members for their excellent arrests. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 