 Port Elizabeth - Quick thinking police officials in Port Elizabeth arrested three suspects and recovered two firearms within two hours after an alleged armed robbery, which took place in Newton Park, Port Elizabeth, on Monday afternoon. "It is alleged that on Monday, at  about 13:00, a security guard was standing at his post outside the premises of his company when he was approached by three unknown men," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "All three men were armed and the security guard was stripped of his 9mm firearm with ammunition. "The men then ran off and it is suspected that they got into a Toyota Quantum vehicle and drove off." Col Naidu said that on further investigation, a registration number of the suspects' vehicle had been taken down by an alert community person. "The registration number was followed up and traced to a taxi owner in New Brighton, who confirmed that the Quantum is used as a taxi. Efforts to contact the driver proved futile." She said that the Cash-in-Transit and Hijacking Task Team together with Mount Road Crime Prevention unit travelled the route of the taxis in an attempt to spot it. "Their intuition paid off when the taxi was spotted in Grahamstown Road in Deal Party, Port Elizabeth. "The taxi driver and his conductor were questioned and further information led the police to a house in Mboyambo Street, New Brighton," Col Naidu said. "The three suspects were exiting the house and when they saw the police, one ran back inside. All three were apprehended. "On searching the house, the 9mm pistol belonging to the security guard as well as another Taurus 9mm pistol were recovered." She said that the Taurus firearm was reported stolen from an Atlas security guard in Korsten on 2 May 2019. "The guard was allegedly robbed by two armed men." Col Naidu said that the three suspects, aged between 21-27 years old, were detained on charges of illegal possession of firearms and ammunition and are detained at SAPS New Brighton. "The taxi driver and the conductor, aged 21 and 36,  were detained on a charge of armed robbery. Detectives are investigating the possible link of the three suspects to the Newton Park robbery. All suspects are expected to appear in court soon." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended all those members involved in the arrests and subsequent follow up on the information. "It is important for police officers to thoroughly know their policing areas as in this case members knew exactly where to look for the suspects. They were arrested within 2 hours after the commission of the crime," added Maj Gen Patekile. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 