 Port Elizabeth - ON the back of an excellent year of Isuzu bakkie sales in Zimbabwe, the Zimbabwean Minister of Industry and Commerce today visited Isuzu's production facility in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. Minister of Industry and Commerce Honourable Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndhlovu is the first Zimbabwean dignitary to visit Isuzu Motors South Africa's production facility in Struandale since it's opening last year. As the second biggest export market of Isuzu Motors South Africa, Zimbabwe accounts for approximately 27% of all African exports, said Isuzu Motors South Africa Executive: Corporate Affairs, Business Strategy and Legal, Denise van Huyssteen. "We welcome the Minister's visit and the opportunity to showcase Isuzu's capabilities in truck and light commercial vehicle production. Isuzu is an established brand in Zimbabwe and as the country embarks on infrastructure development, we are able to offer innovative solutions to meet their needs," said Van Huyssteen. Isuzu has been a consistent strong brand in Zimbabwe, achieving a 25% overall market share in 2018. Isuzu held a 35% share of the pick-up (bakkie) segment and was the best seller in the Double Cab and Extended Cab segments in 2018. "Isuzu has had a presence in Zimbabwe for more than 30 years - selling bakkies, SUV's, trucks and buses in the market.  We value our relationships with all our Zimbabwean customers and see ourselves as a brand that can offer products and services that will meet their needs throughout their life-time," said Van Huyssteen. A big part of the entrenched presence of Isuzu in Zimbabwe is due to the success story of Isuzu's authorised dealership, Autoworld. "Autoworld has been Isuzu's number one export dealer for more than 10 years and has facilities in both Harare and Bulawayo employing more than 150 people. They are involved in various community projects and sponsors one of Zimbabwe's top rugby clubs," said Van Huyssteen. Image: Visiting the Isuzu production plant are from left Sean Waller, Autoworld Dealer shareholder, Dr Dawson Mareya, MD of Willowvale Motor Industries, Johan Vermeulen, Isuzu Executive Manufacturing and Supply Chain, Honourable Minister Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndhlovu, Zimbabwean Minister of Trade and Industry, Denise van Huyssteen, Executive Corporate Affairs, Business Strategy and Legal and Paul Chenierayi Autoworld Dealer shareholder. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  