 Port Elizabeth - President Cyril Ramaphosa's inauguration on Saturday was the first of its kind and took place at the Loftus Stadium in Pretoria. Ramaphosa (66) was sworn in as South Africa’s sixth president - marking the official start of his five-year term and setting the stage for the appointment of his new cabinet, which is expected on Monday. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema, who arrived at the inauguration with his wife and EFF officials, warned that if Ramaphosa doesn’t appoint David Mabuza, as his Deputy President, he would be digging his own grave. Malema said, historically, presidents, who antagonised their deputies end up being unseated by them like what happened between Jacob Zuma and Thabo Mbeki. Ramaphosa himself ended up forcing Zuma to hand over the Presidency to him about 15 months ago. “Ramaphosa must never think DD [David Mabuza] will not become a president. If he wants peace, we all know it started towards Polokwane. Zuma said I want to clear my name, but behind the scenes, he said to us that he was forced out,” Malema said. South African Chief Justice, Mogoeng Mogoeng, oversaw Ramaphosa’s oath of office before a cheering crowd of about 40 000 at the Loftus Versveld rugby stadium. The ANC’s outright victory in May 8 elections assured him of reappointment and lawmakers unanimously elected him to the post earlier this week. “You, the people of South Africa, have sent them, and you have sent me, as your President. Having taken the oath of office I am saying yes, South Africa Thuma Mina,” Ramaphosa said. “I pledge here today that I will serve you, I will work with you, side by side, to build the South Africa that we all want and deserve.”  Ramaphosa said despite the challenges the country faces, South Africans remain resolute, resilient and unwavering in their desire for a better South Africa. “Through the irrefutable power of the ballot on 8 May, South Africans declared the dawn of a new era which saw the ANC winning the National and Provincial Elections.” Despite the different political parties which contested the elections, the President said, they all share the same hopes and fears, the same anxieties and aspirations for the country. “This new government draws comfort from the knowledge that, that which unites us is far, far more powerful and enduring than that which divides us. “They have chosen hope over hopelessness, they have opted for unity over conflict and divisions,” the President said, adding that the sixth administration is a defining moment for the young nation of 25 years. “Today is the choice of history. It is through our actions now that we will determine our destiny. South Africans want action and not just words.” He committed to continue building a South Africa that was guided by values, defined by equality, solidarity and a shared humanity - a country that knows neither privilege nor disadvantage - which will be made possible by the mobilisation of the country’s resources and the working together of government, business and ordinary citizens. In this regard, he said, the Constitution as the basic law of the land will be a guide as the country embarks on a new era. He pledged to wage war on corruption that characterized his predecessor, Jacob Zuma’s rule, reignite an economy that’s expanded by an average of just 1.1% in the past five years and name a new slimmed-down executive to curb costs. Ramaphosa said his administration will work with all citizens toward ending poverty within a generation, addressing some of the world’s highest levels of inequality and tackling a 27% unemployment rate. Ramaphosa has encouraged people on the continent to use the Fourth Industrial Revolution to develop Africa and create jobs for the youth and women as the continent commemorates Africa Day. “On this Africa Day, on the day that our nation enters a new era of hope and renewal, we recall and celebrate that Africa is the birthplace of humanity. Africa is poised once again to rise, to assume its place among the free and equal nations of the world,” President Ramaphosa said. “We recall that it was around 100 000 years ago that a small group of some of the first humans set foot beyond the continent. “With them they took a sense of perseverance and a talent for innovation which enabled them to progressively occupy every corner of the world. “Humanity has achieved a great deal over the intervening millennia and all by virtue of talents which evolved in Africa,” the President said. He said Africans must use their talents for innovation in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Africa Day is celebrated annually on 25 May within the African continent to mark the formation of the Organisation of African Unity on 25 May 1963 and the African Union in 2002, which was created to promote unity in Africa. The day, which is celebrated across the continent is used to acknowledge the progress that Africans have made, while reflecting upon the common challenges faced in a global environment. South Africa has dedicated the month of May to celebrate Africa Month. Government is using it to promote the African unity, deeper regional integration and recommit Africa to a common destiny. The theme for the month is ‘Celebrating 25 Years of Democracy: Building a Better Africa and a Better World’. Former presidents, Kgalema Motlanthe, Thabo Mbeki and F.W. de Klerk, attended Ramaphosa’s inauguration, along with the leaders of Zimbabwe, Togo, Zimbabwe, Botswana, South Sudan, Mozambique, Namibia, Angola, Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo. After taking his oath, Ramaphosa inspected the armed forces, and air force jets, planes and helicopters and two South African Airways Airbus A340 passenger aircraft staged a flypast.    Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 