 Somerset East - Swift reaction by the police led to the arrest of four suspects, aged between 23 and 49, within hours after the Somerset East Post Office was robbed on Friday, at about 12:00. "Valuable information shared by a vigilant community member led the police to the suspects," said police spokesperson, Colonel Sibongile Soci. "A joint operation was conducted including members of Somerset-East and Cookhouse Visible Policing, Graaff-Reinet Operational Command Centre and the K9 unit." Col Soci said that two of the three suspects were arrested as they were crossing the river bank on their way to a hiking spot on the N10 National road. "The suspects were found in possession of three firearms with live ammunition, which were confiscated. Further information led the police to the another suspect at Bongweni locality, in Cookhouse," she added. "Upon searching the premises, the suspect was found in the possession of an undisclosed amount of money. "The final arrest was executed in Somerset-East where one of the post office employee’s was arrested." Col Soci said that all four suspects will appear soon in the Somerset East Magistrate's Court on charges relating to possession of suspected stolen money and possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, commended all the members involved in the execution of this joint operation between the Graaff-Reinet and Cradock Clusters, which led to the successful apprehension and arrest of the perpetrators. "When we co-ordinate our operations, swift results are achieved. These arrests are an indication that police throughout the province are on high alert even in our rural and semi-urban towns," she said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 