 King Williams Town - After winning a resounding majority seats in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature in last week's 2019 National and Provincial Government elections, the African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape on Sunday said that it accepts with the greatest humility the results of the 2019 National Elections. The ANC won 44 seats while the Democratic Alliance (DA) won 10, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) five seats and the United Democratic Movement two. The Vryheidsfront Plus got one seat while a new party, the African Transformation Movement got one seat. "The support of the ANC from these elections which is 68,74% communicates a clear and unambiguous message that the people of this Province believe in the African National Congress," said Gift Ngqondi, ANC Eastern Cape Head of Communications. He said that the ANC Provincial Executive Committee also congratulated ANC volunteers and supporters for this overwhelming success. "An unadorned truth conveyed by these results is that the ANC continues to be the only most trusted organisation in our province. The centrality of the ANC in the cause of our people is undeniable," Ngqondi said. "ANC remains the foremost choice and trusted political party by most South Africans. "The ANC thanks all those who went to cast their vote, irrespective of the party they voted for. The regular elections held in our country are an affirmation that our democracy is alive and as well as a practical expression of our commitment to the Freedom Charter demand that the people shall govern; no government can justly claim authority unless it is based on the will of the people. "We do not take for granted the confidence the people have once again demonstrated in their movement and commit ourselves to redouble our efforts to work with them to solve the problems they face." Ngqondi added that "through these free, fair, credible and transparent elections and our people voting, as a nation we continue to entrench and strengthen our democracy; a necessary precondition for our nation to move faster to achieving our common vision of a united, democratic, non-racial, non-sexist and prosperous society. "We applaud the sterling work that was done by all those activists and volunteers, who put in long hours and canvassed for votes in all corners of the Province for the ANC. We also salutes the IEC and all its workers for a job well-done and for making the country proud and our democracy stronger." He said that the party has accepted these results "with humility informed by our long held view that it is an honor to serve our people, therefore as revolutionaries we have a sacred responsibility to place the aspirations of our people at the top of our agenda of social transformation.Work now starts to change the lives of our people". Image: The ANC's Eastern Cape candidate for Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, is set to succeed Phumulo Masualle as Eastern Cape Premier. Masualle will be heading to Parliament. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 