 East London - Following the announcement of Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane’s provincial cabineton Tuesday, the leader of the official opposition - the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape, Nqaba Bhanga on Wednesday announced his shadow cabinet. A shadow cabinet is a group of politicians who hold a political post within their own party, but that party is not in government - it is an opposition party. In South Africa, a member of the shadow cabinet is a shadow minister or shadow MEC. The leader of a shadow cabinet is called the Leader of the Opposition. "I would like to confirm that the following Democratic Alliance Members of the Provincial Legislature have been assigned as Shadow MECs," Bhanga said. "The DA wants to see the provincial legislature become a more vibrant parliament where MECs and their departments are held fully accountable and consequence management is enforced through the powers of the Legislature. "Sweetheart oversight will not change the current direction of the province." The DA has already criticised Mabuyane's cabinet as inexperienced. Caucus Leader, Shadow Premier and Standing Committee on Public Accounts (SCOPA) Spokesperson. Chief Whip and Shadow MEC of Safety and Liaison. Shadow MEC of Education as well as Shadow MEC of Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism. Shadow MEC of Transport. Shadow MEC of Co-Operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA) as well as Shadow MEC of Public Works. Shadow MEC of Finance, as well as Shadow MEC of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform. Shadow MEC of Health. Shadow MEC of Sports, Recreation, Arts and Culture. Shadow MEC of Social Development. Shadow MEC of Human Settlements. "Each shadow MEC has been tasked with holding their counterpart accountable in the exercise of their powers, and putting forward fresh ideas and credible alternatives to government plans and policies for their respective portfolios," Bhanga said. "We will not oppose and critique just for the sake of it, we will be complimentary and robust, and will engage in the practice of constructive opposition. "The Democratic Alliance in the Eastern Cape will work each and every day for the values of Freedom, Fairness, Opportunity and Diversity, as we strive to build One South Africa for All." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 