 Makhanda - The Makana Local Municipality says it is awaiting a report on the cost of the work done by disaster relief organisation, Gift of the Givers, following a fall-out between the municipality and the organisation, which announced it was leaving drought-stricken Makhanda alleging fraud. "The Gift of the Givers (GoG) came to Makhanda at our invitation because there was a crisis," the Makana Local Municipality said. "GoG came in to assist us to provide water to residents on the eastern side of the town because there was a problem at the James Kleynhans Water Treatment Works, which led to the municipality not being able to supply water to them. "They brought much needed bottled water, animal fodder and helped us to cart water to areas that didn’t have water at the time, for that we are very thankful them. "Once they arrived and started doing all this work, discussions between themselves and municipal officials commenced and they started drilling a number of boreholes in various areas around the town." Gift of the Givers alleged that after drilling these boreholes and offering other assistance to alleviate the water crisis in the town, they were shocked to hear that government would pay other companies several millions of Randsfor work that they had already done. The organisation said, as a result, it had decided to leave the town. "Currently, we are in the process of trying to determine how we can compensate them for the work they have already done," the Makana Municipality said. "Officials from the Department of Water and Sanitation, the Municipal Infrastructure Support Agency, the municipality and GoG have assessed the work that has been done and costed it. "They are now putting together a report that will clarify the amount of work that has been done and how much it cost. As the institution we are looking at the modalities of paying the GoG the costs of the work they have done, which must be done within legislation and standard government processes." The Makana Municipality said that it was hopeful a resolution will be reached on the matter. "We are very sorry for any misunderstandings that may have occurred leading up to this process and we would not like these issues to negatively affect the relationship that we have had with the GoG up to now," it added. "Meetings continue to take place among the relevant stakeholders, with the next one scheduled for Thursday, 23 May 2019. "We will issue more updates as soon as they become available." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 