 Bhisho - The African National Congress (ANC) Caucus in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature congratulated the MPLs appointed as Chairpersons and Whips of Portfolio Committees of the Sixth Legislature at the Rules Committee Meeting which took place on Thursday. The Chief Whip is responsible for administering the whipping system that ensures that members of the party attend and vote on matters in line with what their party leadership desires. Meanwhile, members of the whippery, among other duties, help the Chief Whip and his/her deputy in ensuring that party representatives fulfil their duties and toe the party line. The following Comrades have been appointed as Chairpersons of Portfolio Committees: The following comrades have been appointed as Whips of Portfolio Committees: "We are confident that this cohort of Chairpersons and Whips of Legislature Portfolio Committees will ensure effective and robust oversight in an effort to fulfil the mandate given to the ANC by the electorate," said new ANC Chief Whip in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature, Loyiso Magqashela.. "Our confidence is further anchored in our belief that the above-mentioned comrades are tried, tested, and ready to serve the people of the Eastern Cape by safeguarding meaningful public participation in law-making through avenues such as a well - oiled public hearings system machinery. "We envisage this as a step in the right direction towards ensuring that the views of our people contribute to the progressive formulation and review of laws within our province." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 