 Jeffreys Bay - Two suspects, a 40-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman, are expected in curt after they were nabbed driving a rental motor vehicle with clothing stock valued at around R15 000 in the parking area of a local shopping mall in Jeffreys Bay. "On Friday, at around 2pm, a police patrol vehicle during a routine crime prevention patrol spotted a silver Toyota Etios with Gauteng registration number plates driving suspiciously in the parking area of a shopping mall in Jeffreys Bay," said police spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. "Police officers, on testing the vehicle, it came out that a vehicle belonged to a rental company and decided to stop it for a routine check. "The two occupants, a man and a woman were found in possession of new clothing items valued around R15 000 from various retail stores." He said that the two could not account for the items and were arrested for possession of suspected stolen property. "Police also impounded the rental vehicle, a silver Toyota Etios with Gauteng registration number plates," Sgt Majola Nkohli said. "The suspects are due to appear at the Humansdorp Magistrate’s Court on Monday on charges of possession of suspected stolen property." Humansdorp SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, praised members for the arrest. “There is a noticeable trend for criminals to use rental vehicles hence members are wary of such vehicles. Police are also urging shop owners with clothing security tags not to allow foil wrapped bags in their businesses as a precautionary measure,” concluded Brig Lebok. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 