 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Buffalo City Metro says it is concerned with the way in which the so-called Mandela Funeral Funds scandal has been handled by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). The party held its ordinary District Executive Committee (DEC) meeting this past weekend at the East London City Hall, in East London. "The meeting was held for the leadership core of the Party to assess the state of the working class and that of our Party and construct a way forward with the best interests of the working class," explained Luntu Sokutu, SACP District Spokesperson. "The meeting received and discussed extensively the political and organisational reports." Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, in 2017,recommended that then President Jacob Zuma authorises the Special Investigations Unit (SIU) to investigate the irregular or negligent expenditure of R300 million during former president, Nelson Mandela’s funeral. The R300 million was apparently misspent by the Eastern Cape provincial government, the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC), the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality, the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality and the King Sabata Dalindyebo District Municipality. Several high-profile politicians were fingered in the scandal - some, who have since been redeployed elsewhere. "The DEC reaffirmed its position to wage a relentless war against corruption and corporate capture of the state," Sokutu said. "As such, the SACP in the district is quite concerned at the manner in which cases surrounding allegations of corruption in Buffalo City Metro have been handled by the National Prosecuting Authority. "It is in the best interests of the public and the individuals concerned that cases involving allegations of corruption are speedily concluded. "For this reason, we welcome the decision by the NPA Head, who requested an urgent report on the reason for the delays and what action will be taken to ensure that the matters are placed back on the roll as soon as possible." Sokutu added that the SACP in the Buffalo City Metro is calling for an end to outsourcing in the city in favour of insourcing as part of building the capacity of the state to deliver services. "The meeting particularly warned against the attempts to outsource the security services in the city." Sokutu said that the meeting was the first DEC plenary session after the 2019 National General Elections; to this end the meeting received a report on the 2019 National and Provincial Elections (NPE). "We congratulate the African National Congress for achieving the 57.5 percent nationally and 68.74 percent in the Eastern Cape. The people have once again affirmed and given the ANC a mandate to lead our country. We wish to join our Central Committee in expressing sincere gratitude to all South Africans who voted the ANC," he described. "The ANC electoral victory was made possible also by the tireless and unambiguous campaigning efforts of the members, supporters and volunteers of the SACP, COSATU and SANCO, as well as a wide range of supportive South Africans, over and above the ANC. "We wish to thank our Red Brigades in the district who worked tirelessly for the ANC electoral victory. "We are of the firm view that the ANC alliance should use the outcomes of these elections to press ahead with defending, deepening and advancing the National Democratic Revolution." He added that the ANC ought to genuinely commit on the program of self-correction and renewal by assigning leadership responsibilities both inside and outside government to persons of upright character with integrity. "This should be done for amongst other reasons, the people have affirmed the ANC in the recently held elections because it promised to renew both the country and the movement." Sokutu said that the DEC noted the results of the Quarterly Labour Force Survey for the first quarter of 2019 released by Stats SA. "As the SACP we are deeply concerned about the rising rate of unemployment which increased by 0.5% in the first quarter compared to the last quarter of 2018," he said. "We are more concerned that the decline was observed in all sectors of the economy. "Job losses continue to impose an onslaught on the South African working class especially in the context of the high costs of living, increase of VAT, fuel prices and so on." He said that in light of the above, the DEC reaffirmed the need to use the recent decisive victory achieved by the ANC headed alliance in the recent national general elections to press ahead with the NDR. "As uBaw’ uNdlovu would say: history has given us another chance." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 