 Holliday Coffee Co, on the corner of Villiers Road and 6th Ave, Walmer, Port Elizabeth, serves one of the best cappuccinos I have ever tasted. I love coffee and am always on the lookout for new coffee shops or new brands of coffee. Holiday Coffee is a relatively new café in town and I didn’t miss a chance to try out their wares. Well, I have since returned numerous times to enjoy their amazing cappuccinos, Americanos and espressos. I had met the owner of Holiday Coffee Co, Chris Forager, some years ago when he hosted a coffee tasting experience for my company. Chris is absolutely passionate about his profession. “Holiday Coffee Company is a lifestyle coffee brand around which people are able to meet, relate, and form relationships while being inspired to dream,” says Chris. He adds, “We want to serve our customers; our companions, the best possible cup of coffee imaginable. As a result we work closely with our roastery to source and supply highly graded green coffee.” Holiday Coffee Co have recently launched a new website and worked closely with Agency One to develop a site that reflected their lifestyle brand of coffee. “We have worked tirelessly to develop both an exceptional flagship blend, as well as source an equally incredible decaffeinated coffee processed 100% naturally by CO2. In addition to this we supply and produce specific seasonal single origin coffees,” says Chris. The décor of the café has a holiday atmosphere and a variety of cakes are served to complement your cuppa. Holiday Coffee is open Mon - Fri: 6:30 - 16:00 and Sat: 6:30 - 13:00 For more information call +27 (0) 83 444 6653 or email info@holidaycoffee.co.za or visit them at Corner of Villiers Road and 6th Ave, Walmer, Port Elizabeth. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 