 Port Elizabeth - Six men are expected in court in Mthatha after they were arrested by the Mthatha Public Order Police for blockading the N2 outside Qumbu, near Mthatha. The suspects, aged between 20 and 45 years, were part of the Laleni Location community that blocked the road complaining about service delivery. "The suspects will appear before the Qumbu Magistrate's Court soon on charges of contravening with Prevention of Public Violence and Intimidation Act 139 of 1991, Traffic Act 93 of 1996 and Criminal Matters Amendment Act 18 of 2015 Section 3, which talks to the destruction of infrastructure," said police spokesperson, Capt Sibongile Soci. "In a separate incident five suspects, aged between 16 and 51, have been arrested for Public Violence after the community of Ginsberg, outside King William’s Town also blocked the main Road with burning tyres earlier on Monday. "These five suspects will appear in the King Williams Town Magistrate's Court soon." Capt Soci said that the Eastern Cape Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA) is part of the joint multidisciplinary approach primarily to help resolve issues and challenges raised by the protesting communities. She said that the R408 road between Dutywa and Willowvale was also blocked by protesting residents demanding services. "Police acted swiftly and the road was opened with the assistance of the mayor of Mbashe Local Municipality, who addressed and engaged with the community members." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, commended the SAPS members for their speedy response to these incidents. “SAPS members together with Law Enforcement Agencies are operationally ready to ensure that the rights of law-abiding citizens are not infringed in any way, particularly through criminal acts by protesting individuals", said General Ntshinga. "We commend the visibility and multi-disciplinary support we continue to get throughout the province. We are grateful to leadership intervention in resolving conflict situations in all flashpoints throughout the Province." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. 