 Port Elizabeth - The Coega Development Corporation (CDC) on Wednesday welcomed the appointment of the Eastern Cape Executive Counciland, in particular the appointment of Mlungisi Mvoko as the Eastern Cape MEC for Finance, Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism (DEDEAT) - and as the CDC’s Executive Authority. “As the CDC, we look forward to working with the MEC. We certainly wish him all the best during his tenure; he can be rest assured of our commitment as we strive to be the leading catalyst in championing of the socio-economic development in the EC,” says Dr. Ayanda Vilakazi, CDC’s Head Marketing, Brand and Communications. "We further welcome the remarks by the new Premier of the EC, Honourable Lubabalo Mabuyane, when he said 'the work we will do must create more decent jobs for the people of this province and grow the provincial economy to benefit all the people of the Eastern Cape.'” Whilst the CDC this year celebrates twenty (20) years of its existence, it has delivered on its mandate and is making significant progress to improve the socio-economic development in the Eastern Cape by creating in excess of 112 974 jobs, since inception in 1999. In addition, the Coega SEZ as at May 2019 has attracted 45 operational investors, and combined have invested over R7.979 billion, thus making Coega the most successful and leading SEZ in Africa. By 31 March 2020, the CDC is projecting an increase in the number of operational investors in the Coega SEZ from 45 to 50 with R8, 24 billion in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Image: OUTLINING THE VISION: Premier of the Eastern Cape, Lubabalo Mabuyane announcing the appointment of the Eastern Cape Executive Council in Port Alfred. Photo supplied by IOL website. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 