 Bhisho - Former Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral Committee Member (MMC) for Human Settlements, Nqaba Bhanga, was among 10 Democratic Alliance (DA) party representatives sworn in as Members of the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature on Wednesday. Bhanga is the DA Eastern Cape leader and was its candidate for Premier in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections. After coming in second in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections, the DA is the official opposition in the Eastern Cape province. DA Eastern Cape members sworn are: "These individuals bring with them a mix of skill, expertise and experience that puts them in good stead to serve the people of the Eastern Cape," the aprty said. Bhanga announced that he has also appointed Bobby Stevenson as chief whip of the party. "Bobby brings with him a wealth of experience, as the longest serving member now in his fifth term, and has served the party well as the leader of the provincial legislature during the fifth sitting,” he said. The party said that, as the official opposition in the legislature, will be guided by the following two principles: However, after the ANC won by a resounding majority - getting 44 seats out of the 63 available, it remains to be seen how the DA and the other opposition parties will be able to effectivey influence matters in the Bhisho legislature. Image: Front row (left to right): Jane Cowley, Nqaba Bhanga, Bobby Stevenson, Edmund van Vuuren. Second row: Retief Odendaal, Yusuf Cassim, Nomvano Zibonda. Back Row: Sanele Magaqa, Vicky Knoetze and Marshall von Buchenroder. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 