 Steytlerville  - The Stock Theft Unit in the Uitenhage Cluster are investigating a case of stock theft after 31 Merino sheep were stolen from a farm in the Steytlerville district between Tuesday and Wednesday. "Five tied sheep belonging to the same owner were found abandoned," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "It is alleged that the sheep were herded to a neighbouring farm that is situated next to the R329 in the Wolwefontein/Steytlerville district. "The legs of the sheep were tied up and they were loaded alive onto vehicle/s. "The value of the stock taken amounts to over R46 000." Capt Swart said that investigating officers, attached to the Uitenhage Stock Theft Unit, are urgently appealing to the community to assist them with any information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects involved in the theft of the stock. "The Unit is currently also investigating several other cases that occurred in the Uitenhage Cluster where large amounts of stock were taken," she added. "Anyone who might be able to assist with any information about the case, is requested to contact the Uitenhage Stock Theft Unit on 079 896 9521, 079 896 7363 or the commander, Capt Gary du Randt on 082 958 9099." Acting Uitenhage SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier Ronald Koll, encouraged stock owners to be vigilant for stock thieves and discouraged members of the community from buying any stolen stock. Brig Koll warned those, who buy and sell stolen animals would be prosecuted. "The South African Police Service encourage the community to assist with the fight against crime by phoning Crime Stop 08600 10111 or Crime Line SMS 32211 with their tips." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 