 Makhanda - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Friday said that it will be reporting the Department of Water and Sanitation to the Public Protector (PP) and requesting an investigation after R10 million was made available to local companies to do work already completed by the Gift of the Givers in drought stricken Makhanda. This comes after Gift of the Givers announced it will be withdrawing from Makhanda. "This refers to the citing, drilling and electricity connection of boreholes in the town," Mlindi Nhanha - DA Caucus Leader Makana Local Municipality. "Makhanda is in a water crisis and the Gift of the Givers were called upon in February to provide assistance. "The work done by the Gift of the Givers amounts to R15 million, but they still have not been paid." Nhanha  said that Gift of the Givers is a humanitarian organisation and it saved Makhanda from a looming Day Zero. "After spending millions of rands on bottled water, exploration and drilling of boreholes, the government has now decided someone else is good enough to do the work," he added. "The DA Caucus in the Makana Local Municipality will in the next 48 hours request a meeting with the Gift of the Givers to discuss the way forward. "DA members of Parliament will in the National Assembly, National Council of Provinces (NCOP) and Eastern Cape Legislature be asking questions of the departments of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA) and Water and Sanitation to get to the bottom of this dubious deal." Nhanha claimed that "the ANC is now not only trying to loot the public purse of money by paying companies for work already completed, but is also denying residents their basic human right to water by claiming there is no water crisis in Makhanda". The Makana Local Municipality has since accused Gift of the Givers of trying to influence discussions with the public announcement that they were leaving. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 