 Port Elizabeth - Many people probably did not expect it. On Wednesday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the appointment of two former Eastern Cape Premiers to his much anticipated cabinet. Former Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, who was recently succeeded by Oscar Mabuyane, was included in Ramaphosa's new cabinet as the Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises, under Minister, Pravin Gordhan. His new boss, Gordhan, is fighting to clear his name after Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkwebane, last week Friday announced that he had violated the country’s constitution of the Republic. Mkwebane said Gordhan was guilty of improper conduct after he granted the early retirement payout of then South African Revenue Service (Sars) deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay. On Tuesday, Gordhan filed a review application asking the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to set aside the Public Protector's report, which many beleived jeopardised his chances of being appointed to Ramaphosa's cabinet. With his boss fighting his legal challenges, Masualle could end up playing an important in that portfolio. Meanwhile, Masualle's own predecessor, Noxolo Kiviet, also made a surprise entry into Ramaphosa’s cabinet as the Deputy Minister of Public Works and Infrastructure. Kiviet was Eastern Cape Premier until 2014 when she refused to be deployed to the National Assembly opting to remain in the Eastern Cape where she served as the Speaker of the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature in Bhisho. She will be working under former Democratic Alliance (DA) Cape Town Mayor and now Good Party leader, Patricia De Lille, whose inclusion in the cabinet also came as a surprise. The surprises did not end there. Here are Ramaphosa's new cabinet appointments: Ramaphosa also brought back some members of his old cabinet in new posts: Meanwhile Ramaphosa kept a few Ministers in their old jobs. Tito Mboweni remains as South Africa's Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan remains as Minister of Public Enterprises; Angie Motshekga kept her post as Minister of Education minister for the third time; Nosiviwe Mapisa-Naqkula remains Minister of Defence; Bheki Cele remains Minister of Police; Blade Nzimande retained his position as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology; Nathi Mthetwa continues as Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture and Gwede Mantashe remains Minister of Mineral Resources. Mantashe will now also handle the Energy portfolio that was under axed Minister Jeff Radebe. Radebe was not the only casualty of Ramaphosa's new cabinet. Ramaphosa did away with former Ministers Nomvula Mokonyane, Bathabile Dlamini, Gugile Nkwinti, Derek Hanekom, Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba, Rob Davies, Siyabonga Cwele, Susan Shabangu, Michael Masutha, Senzeni Zokwana, Mildred Oliphant, Nomaindia Mfeketo andThokozile Xasa. The African National Congress (ANC) has welcomed the appointments and said that it is confident that all its cadres appointed to Cabinet are equal to the task of implementing the ANC agenda of growing the economy and economy and creating jobs for the people of South Africa. "The ANC believes that Cde Cyril Ramaphosa and his team will hit the ground running and focus on the needs and aspirations of our people," said ANC National spokesperson, Pule Mabe. "We commend Cde Cyril Ramaphosa for reconfiguring Ministries in a manner that takes into account the imperative of reducing the burden on the public purse without compromising government's capacity to deliver on its undertakings. "We are satisfied that the newly announced Cabinet reflects a good balance of youth, gender, geographical spread and experience. "The ANC wishes to express gratitude to the peopple of South Africa for giving the ANC an overwhelming mandate to transform society and deliver the vision of a better life for all." He added that the ANC is urging the new members of Cabinet to serve the people of South Africa with selflessnes and humility, and to conduct their portfolios with dignity and integrity. "We wish our cadres the best as they embark on this arduous task of implementing the ANC Manifesto which is premised on job creation, growing the economy ensuring effective governance and fighting corruption," Mabe said. "The call to action is for all deployed cadres of the ANC to put their collective hands on deck in order to implement the ANC Manifesto. "The ANC also calls on all political parties and all sectors of society to work with the new Executive as part of the national effort to grow South Africa together." Image: Former Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, and former Premier-turned-Speaker, Noxolo Kiviet. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 