 East London - One of the nine suspects believed to be involved in the robbery of a million Rands worth of jewellery at Browns Jewellers in Hemingways Mall, East London, was arrested by the South African Police Service on Monday. "The incident took place on 16 May 2019, when armed suspects stormed and robbed one of the well-known jewellery store in East London," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "This breakthrough follows after Crime Prevention members in Cambridge policing precinct received information on the whereabouts of the 36-year-old female suspect, who matched the description of one of the wanted suspects. "The suspect was subsequently arrested on a charge of armed robbery. Recovery of the stolen Jewellery has not been made at this stage." Brig Kinana said that investigation into the whereabouts of other suspects are underway and police cannot rule out the possibility of further arrests in the near future. "Meanwhile, the arrested suspect appeared in the East London Magistrate's Court on Wednesday on a charge of armed robbery. "The suspect, whose identity cannot be revealed until she has pleaded in court, remains in custody until the next court appearance." Brig Kinana said that the case has since been remanded to Thursday for defence. "Police appeal to any person who may have knowledge of the other suspects’ s whereabouts to immediately inform the nearest police station or call the crime stop number 08 600 10 111," he added. "Any information supplied will be treated with extreme confidentiality." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  