 Port Elizabeth - This year is momentous for Bennetts Technologies. They celebrate 25 years of being in business and they are moving from their old office in 4th Ave Newton Park to 46 6th Avenue, Walmer, Port Elizabeth. Last year also had some significant changes with Douglas Hayes, the Managing Director at Bennetts Technologies, buying out Gavin Bennet, the founder of the company. Doug says, “Gavin did an excellent job of developing the company into what it is today. I now have the privilege of leading an incredible team with the responsibility to ensure that this company continues to build on the legacy left by Gavin and grow and prosper for the next 25 years.” Another change taking place at the company this year is their change of branding. “In the last year we began implementing a strategy for the future vision of the business. The first visible implementation is our move to Walmer. We are also busy with an exciting rebrand of the business. We will remain the same legal entity but with a different operating name,” says Doug. He adds, “Neither of these changes affects our relationship with you. You can still expect the same dedication and close working relationship that we have had in the past.” There have been an enormous amount of changes in the world and particularly in the information technology world since Bennetts Technologies was launched. Facebook and Google did not exist in the ‘90s and mobile technology was only beginning. Fax machines were all the rage and only a few people had email. The rate of change in the business world is increasing and it is essential to understand and stay in step with these changes. “I have spent much time immersing myself in the ever-changing business environment and the opportunities to help our customers increase the profitability and efficiency of their businesses. If you would like to find out more about our plans for the future and how our new products, services and technologies can assist you, I would be very pleased to meet with you,” concludes Doug. Visit Bennetts Technologies at their new offices at 46 6th Avenue, Walmer, Port Elizabeth, or at www.bennettstech.com, call them on 041 392 1611 / 087 3651192 or email Douglas at douglas@bennettstech.com today. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 