 Port Elizabeth -  Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, on Monday urged local residents to come out in their numbers and vote in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections on Wednesday. “Nelson Mandela Bay residents must go out in their numbers to cast their votes for the political parties of their choice on 8 May," the Mayor said. "As a city, we are ready for the 2019 elections; we have established a special Joint Operations Centre (JOC), which will respond to any event that may disrupt procedures.” Bobani assured residents that the 2019 elections in the city would proceed safely and fairly. The Mayor confirmed that special voting was under way in various venues around the city and that no incidents had been reported so far: “We are not expecting any challenges until the second day of special votes tomorrow (7 May) but, in the event of any unexpected incident, we will be ready to respond.” Various stakeholders, including the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Fire and Emergency Services, the South African Police Services, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral Rapid Response team and the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC), constitute the Joint Operations Centre, which is located at the South End Fire Station in Humewood. An elderly resident, Leonie Cameron of Walmer, who cast her special vote at City Hall reception today, confirmed that she still believed that her vote would bring the positive change that she would like to see in the Metro. “I am happy that I form part of this day to exercise my right to vote. The process went smoothly and peacefully,” she said. IEC regional supervisor, Crosby Bacela, commented: “Over 21000 voters applied for special votes on 6 & 7 May 2019. We urge all 612 000 registered voters in our city to close shop on 8 May and visit the 255 Voting Stations.” To report any service delivery related issues, residents can call 0800 20 50 50. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 