 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is inviting residents to help it improve transport access and infrastructure delivery. "The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality subscribes to the global Universal goal of giving all citizens access to economic opportunity, enabled by appropriate services and infrastructure design," explained Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Communications and Media Management Officer, Mthubanzi Mniki. "It needs the help of all current and future users of public transport in the Metro to enable it to provide all transport users with universal Access to public transport. "For that purpose, the Municipality needs to know your needs and requirements, to update and complement the limited data it has, so that its planners and engineers can design infrastructure that address real needs. "So whether or not you are a person with mobility impairments, a traveller by public transport, an elderly person, a mother who accompanies her children, a walker, cyclist, a wheelchair or a private car user, we need your input!" Mniki said that to help the Metro identify your Universal Access needs and design services and infrastructure to meet your needs, you are cordially requested to complete an online questionnaire, available at www.nelsonmandelabay.gov.za. "Note that any input you provide, will be treated as confidential." Below is the link to the survey questionnaire, available in English at www.surveymonkey.com/r/NMBUniversalAccess and in IsiXhosa www.surveymonkey.com/r/NMBM_Xhosa "The questionnaire has five sections, and you inter alia will be required to state your travel patterns, your universal access needs and the cost transport services," Mniki added. "You will also be requested to provide optional information, such as your name, a form of identification and contact details, as well as your demographic group, to allow the Municipality to build a database of special users and their needs. "Please take the time to complete the questionnaire and be a part of creating a better transport experience for yourself and all residents of Nelson Mandela Bay!" Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 