 Uitenhage - Efforts by members of the South African Police Service to curb crime in the Uitenhage Cluster, saw SAPS Kwanobuhle members responding swiftly to a house robbery that occurred at about 23:10 on Thursday. According to police information, the incident happened in Nkohli Street, Kwanobuhle, in Uitenhage. "It is alleged that two suspects (one with a firearm) entered the residence of the 44-year-old female complainant and demanded car keys to her gold-coloured VW Polo," described police spokesperson, Capt Gerda Swart. "The suspects also took a Plasma TV, clothing and fled the scene in the complainant’s VW Polo. "It is further alleged that a red VW Caddy was seen driving behind the VW Polo." Capt Swart said that police were immediately notified and the description of the vehicle and registration number was circulated by members of the Uitenhage 10111 Centre. "Alert members from Uitenhage K9, the Port Elizabeth Flying Squad and SAPS Kamesh responded and members noticed the two vehicles driving in Maduna Road, Uitenhage at about 00:30, on Friday morning." She sid that the police managed to pull the driver of the red VW Caddy over and members found clothing and a TV in the said vehicle, which allegedly belonged to the victim. "The three male suspects, ages between 20 - 40 years, were arrested on the scene on a charge of possession of suspected stolen goods," Capt Swart said. "The other SAPS units gave chase after the VW Polo and recovered the abandoned vehicle in Sinyani Street, Kwalanga, Uitenhage, a few minutes later. "The suspects had already fled and the vehicle was handed in to be processed by our forensic experts." She said that the three suspects are due to appear in the Kwanobuhle Magistrate’s Court on Monday on a charge of possession of suspected stolen goods. "More charges might be added as the investigation continues." Acting Uitenhage SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier Ronald Koll, commended the various units for their collaborative approach that resulted in the arrest of the suspects. Brig Koll instructed the investigation team to pursue all avenues to apprehend the outstanding suspects.      "The South African Police Service encourage the community to assist with the fight against crime by phoning Crime Stop 08600 10111 or Crime Line SMS 32211 with their tips." File image. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 