 Uitenhage - Police in Kwanobuhle, in Uitenhage, have appealed for leads in their hunt for suspects involved in the fatal shooting of three males on Monday. According to police information, the males, aged 30 - 36, were shot at about 19:25 on Monday, at a home in Tiya Street, Kwanobuhle, Uitenhage. "It is alleged that a group of males were busy to grind a safe open at the residence in Tiya Street, Kwanobuhle," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "Police believe that dissatisfaction among the men led to the fatal shooting incident in which three males, ages between 30 - 36, were shot and killed at the scene and two others were wounded. "The suspect/s fled from the scene in an unknown vehicle." She said that SAPS Kwanobuhle detectives are investigating three counts of murder and two counts of attempted murder. "More charges might be added. Police are looking into the possibility to link the recovered safe to a specific owner." Acting Uitenhage Cluster Commander, Brig Ronald Kolll, strongly condemned the brutal act in which three persons were killed and two wounded in Kwanobuhle. Brig Koll said: "The South African Police Service will not tolerate these ruthless acts, they will hunt these suspects down to account for their callous action". Anyone who might be able to assist with any information about the murders are requested to contact SAPS Kwanobuhle on 041 978 8600 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111. "Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality," Capt Swart said. "The names of the victims will be released after their next-of-kin were informed." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 