 Kenton-On-Sea - Police in Kenton-on-Sea have opened an inquest docket after a 19-year-old woman was caught in rip currents and later drowned. According to Stephen Slade, National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) Port Alfred deputy station commander, at 15h31, on Sunday, the NSRI Port Alfred duty crew were activated following reports of a drowning in progress at Kenton-On-Sea main beach. "NSRI rescue swimmers, the SA Police Services, Eastern Cape Government Health EMS, Gardmed ambulance services and Hi-Tech Security responded," Slade said. "On arrival on the scene, bystander Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) efforts were being conducted on a 19-year-old local female on the beach." He said that Paramedics continued with advanced life support resuscitation efforts, but sadly after all efforts were exhausted the female was declared deceased. "It appears from reports gathered at the scene that while swimming in the surf, the female was swept out to sea - caught in rip currents. "The currents brought the casualty back towards the beach where a good Samaritan waded into the surf and rescued the female to the beach where bystanders initiated CPR (Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation) efforts," he described. "Condolences are conveyed to the family and friends of the female. "The body of the woman was taken into the care of the Forensic Pathology Services."  Slade said that local police have opened an inquest docket.  "The Good Samaritan and the bystanders who assisted on the scene are commended in their efforts to try to save the teenager's life." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 