 Port Elizabeth - The Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit (Gang Investigation) and the Visible Gang Intervention Team (VGIT) led by the Cluster Detective Co-ordinator, Col Paul Orange, on Thursday night arrested four gang suspects wanted on separate cases of murder and illegal possession of firearm and ammunition. "The team worked from Thursday night(from 22:00) until the early hours of Friday morning (06:00) - hunting down wanted suspects," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "Two suspects aged 22 and 24 years old (affiliated to the same gang) were arrested at a house in Deverill Street in Helenvale." She said that these suspects were wanted on separate homicide incidents. "The third suspect, aged 18 years old, was arrested in Kwanoxolo on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition while the fourth suspect, a 17-year-old, was arrested in Booysens Park for illegal possession of ammunition." Col Naidu said that information also led the team to Kamesh, in Uitenhage, where a house was searched in Arcacia Street. "A 9mm Vector pistol, with serial filed off, was found hidden under frozen meat in a freezer in the kitchen. The firearm will be sent to ballistics for analysis," she added. "Also on Thursday, at about 10:00, the Tactical Response Team (Gauteng) recovered a 9mm pistol with ammunition after searching a male during stop and searches in Leith Street in Helenvale." Col Naidu said that since Monday, a total of 10 firearms were recovered and several suspects arrested. "All these firearms will be sent to ballistics for analysis." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, has vowed that "our police officers both operational and investigative will be doing everything in their power to ensure that criminals are arrested and brought to book while at the same time, we appeal to the communities to assist us in making sure that their environment is safe and secure". Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 