 South Africa on Wednesday, 8 May, is at the polls -  voting in the country’s sixth national general elections since the end of apartheid in 1994. Voters are choosing the next President, Members of Parliament (also called the National Assembly) as well as members of the various Provincial Legislatures. A record number - 48 political parties, met the legal requirements to contest the 2019 National and Provincial elections. South Africa's national and provincial elections take place every five years. Observers see the May 8 general election as an assessment on the performance of the ruling African National Congress (ANC), which has run the country over the past 25 years. The once esteemed liberation movement has lately been mired in several high-profile corruption scandals involving some of its top leadership. It has also been blamed by opposition parties for the weak economy – which has somewhat recovered after current President, Cyril Ramaphosa, replaced Jacob Zuma. Still, allegations of corruption did not end with the Zuma-Gupta relationship as Ramaphosa, his son and those around him in the ANC allegedly benefited from the now-infamous Bosasa. However, the question remains - could there be an alternative in the country’s opposition parties, which also face their own challenges and allegations. Failed opposition coalitions against the ANC have also shown how opposition parties cannot resolve their differences - which, as an example, saw the ANC bouncing back in Nelson Mandela Bay, even after it was narrowly defeated by the DA in the 2016 Local Government Elections. Support for the ANC dwindled starting with the 2004 election and reaching its lowest point during the Jacob Zuma presidency, however opinion polls see the ANC bouncing back and winning around 60% of the vote owing to the so-called 'Ramaphosa effect', which is believed to be drawing voters back to the party aided by a fragmanted opposition. Not sure were to find your voting station and what times they will close? Read our quick guide to the 2019 Elections HERE. 08:00 - With Eastern Cape having the highest number of special votes applications, the provincial government, through the Provincial Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (ProvJOINTS) has commended the multi-disciplinary teams that worked tirelessly to ensure that stability prevailed across the Province.  Read more HERE 07:44 - Zip machine at Greenwood school reportedly broken. Voting process being done manually. 07:30 - Early bird voters already done. 07:26 - Ballot paper arrives at Greenwood school. 07:15 - Voters lined at Buffelsfontein Old Age Home in Charlo, Port Elizabeth.   07:07 - Almost no queue at Greenwood school in Park Drive, Port Elizabeth. Maybe 80 or so people had turned up to vote at time of reporting. Apparently, the voting station still waiting for baallot paper. 06:35 - Queues at voting station by Impact Church in Glenroy, Port Elizabeth, split up. A to L in one queue  and M to Z in another line.  Meant to make voting must faster. 06:30 - There were already long queues reported at various voting stations around the Nelson Mandela Bay as voters braved the cold weather to make their mark in the 2019 Elections. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. 