 Humansdorp - A Humansdorp K9 patrol and narcotics dog led to a drug bust valued at around R500 000 and the arrest of three suspects on Thursday morning. "Police had to demolish cabinets for the recovery of the drugs at the alleged drug post in Humansdorp," described police spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. He said that the bust was an Operation Fiela effort involving police, traffics, municipality law enforcement members. "During the operation, several traffic fines were also issued to motorists for traffic offences ranging from driving without licence to driving unroadworthy vehicles. The value of the traffic fines issued is R14 600," Sgt Nkohli said. "At around 6am, police in possession of a search warrant, visited a house in Bureau Street, Humansdorp. "A Humansdorp K9 patrol and narcotics dog, Calif, positively traced drugs stashed in several compartments inside the house. "Police had to demolish some parts of the built-in cabinets to make the recovery." He added that police seized 1 553 mandrax tablets (310 grams of crushed mandrax), 2.3 kilograms of dagga, 224 grams of cocaine and three grams of heroine. "A total street value of the drugs is estimated to be around R500 000. Police also seized R28 578-80 cash and ten cellphones. The three men, aged between 28 and 46, were arrested and are due to appear in the Humansdorp Magistrate's Court on charges of dealing in illicit drugs on Friday." Humansdorp SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, praised all stakeholders for their involvement in the operation. "This success was a joint effort from various stakeholders including a concerned person who provided police with a solid information about the drug post. Police are also urging other residents to assist in identifying mushrooming drug posts in their areas via Crime Stop 08600 10111," added Brig Lebok. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 