 Port Elizabeth - The Mandela Bay Development Agency is hosting a stakeholder engagement on the renewal of the inner-city, on Wednesday at the Old Tramways Building. MBDA is seeking a collaborative mandate from the Nelson Mandela Bay citizens around the development of the Central Business District (CBD). The CBD is considered to be the backbone of the city as is provides place of work, municipal administration, business support and schooling. The Agency has received various inquires about the current state of central, hence efforts are made to consult broadly and widely about key issues that are of concern to the inner-city users. Tabled for discussion are issues such as road configurations, relocation of trading stations, use of open buildings as creative spaces, parking etc. MBDA strives to follow an in-depth public participation process in developing an inclusive inner-city renewal program that will embrace all its people and cultures in a post -apartheid era. MBDA’s Project leader in Job Creation and Tourism, Oyama Vanto said, “the current approach is to relook and renew to make way for all cultures that exist in the metro to identify themselves within the city through heritage preservation”.  The objective of the renewal is to produce spatial and social transformation, increase opportunity for job creation, and improve access to the city for all citizens of Nelson Mandela Bay. MBDA’s Project Manager for Civil Engineering Giovanni Taft said, “The MBDA aims to build a holistic city that is encapsulating of all diversities, cultures and heritages. The potential of the city is immense, and it needs to be redefined to build a new CBD.” The MBDA will ensure that all reported engagements are in line with the Agency’s mandate, strategic plan as well as the Integrated Development Plan (IDP) of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. Vanto concluded, “The public should come and engage knowing that the MBDA has the people’s interests at the centre of its mandate”. For engagement with the MBDA, please contact MBDA Spokesperson, Luvuyo Bangazi on Tel 041 811 8200 or Email luvuyo.bangazi@mbda.co.za. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 