 Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Nelson Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, on Tuesday hosted a breakfast event in honour of five local achievers. “The youth and their future are an important priority of this Municipality, and a broad spectrum of programmes is in place to promote the economic wellbeing and progress of our youth,” the Mayor said. The purpose of the breakfast was to recognise five local stars who represented the City and put the name of this country on the map. The Nelson Mandela Nelson Bay Municipality wants to celebrate and reward its residents’ achievements and create awareness of the vast and untapped potential of the youth in our City. In his keynote address, Bobani said, “It is hard to believe that over four decades have passed since the youth advanced the cause of our freedom in their courageous resistance against apartheid education. In the process, dozens paid the ultimate price. Their great sacrifice may never be forgotten.” The Executive Mayor stated that it was against this background that the city was celebrating the success of the young citizens of the city in the international arena, proving again that local is good and often excellent. “May I extend a special word of welcome to our five guests of honour: "Nozipho Bell, Nikita-Aliyah Mgoduka, Andile Bailey, Khazimla Khondlo and Siseko Hermanus. You represent so much talent - and we are all so proud of you!” Executive Mayor Bobani stated. The Executive Mayor encouraged the five stars to keep shining, reminding them that they reside in and represent the only City in the world named after the international icon, Nelson Mandela, and that they have a fantastic example in him to emulate. Wherever they go, they should know that the City is proud of them. The Executive Mayor then handed over certificates of recognition to these shining stars. The stars and their achievements are listed below: Crowned World Boxing Federation’s (WBF) Featherweight 2019 Champion. In March, she received WBF Boxer of the month. In total she has 9 wins, 2 losses and 1 draw. Finalist in Ms Africa, She is Africa! Is a rising Karta Judo star, who won a Bronze Medal at the Africa Karta Judo Championship, in the face of stiff competition. Proves that grace and beauty is also in the domain of the very young. This young lady is the reigning Miss Mini Glam South Africa International 2019. She recently represented South Africa in the Miss Mini Glam International 2019, winning the grand title of Miss Charming 2019. She recently won Overall Grand Supreme at Miss International Princess South Africa - which qualifies her to be chosen to represent South Africa again in New York this year July. Siseko is known as a true ambassador of the city, having been nominated to attend the 2019 International Student Convention in Warrensburg, Missouri, in the USA. Siseko will be departing for the USA next week on 16 May. He will be taking part in Bible reciting and an International Soccer Tournament. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. 