 Bhisho - African National Congress (ANC) Eastern Cape Chairperson, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, was on Wednesday elected unopposed and sworn in as the new Eastern Cape Premier. Mabuyane, whose swearing in comes amid allegations that he benefited from funds misappropriation from the Mbizana Local Municipality, replaces former Premier, Phumulo Masualle. He was elected as ANC Eastern Cape Chairperson, at a tense provincial congress that was held in October 2017. The conference suffered from delays as well as violence that saw around eight delegates in hospital. Mabuyane was then tipped to replace his one-time boss as the next Premier as the party's candidate for Premier in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections. He was understood to be backing President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Jacob Zuma, which Ramaphosa did after protracted negotiations with Zuma failed and Zuma was forced to resign. Masualle on the other hand was understood to be backing Zuma's ex-wife, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, who lost to Ramaphosa at the ANC National Elective Conference in December 2017. A group of ANC supporters tried unsuccessfully to challenge Mabuyane's election. He was later appointed Eastern Cape Finance, Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism. Early this year, he tabled his maiden budget as MEC for Finance. While Mabuyane becomes the new Eastern Cape premier, Masualle is now an ANC Member of Parliament. The ANC in the Eastern Cape welcomed his nomination for Premier this month after the 2019 National and Provincial Elections. Meanwhile, former MEC's Hellen Sauls-August and Mlibo Qoboshiyane, were elected Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Eastern Cape Legislature respectivley. The ANC in the Eastern Cape also appointed Loyiso Magqashela as Chief Whip;  Kholiswa Fihlani (Chairperson of the Legislature Oversight Committee) as Deputy Chief Whip; Ntombovuyo Nkopane as Cair of Chairs and Tony Duba (Chairperson of the Law Review) as Deputy Chair of Chairs. "The African National Congress(ANC) in the Eastern Cape welcomes the election and subsequent swearing in of the new Premier of the Province - Comrade Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, Speaker - Cde Helen August, Deputy Speaker - Cde Mlibo Qoboshiyane, Chief Whip - Cde Loyiso Magqashela, Deputy Chief Whip - Cde Kholiswa Fihlani and all ANC Members of the Provincial Legislature," it said. "Comrade Mabuyane brings to the position a solid track record in the service of our people dating back to his deployment last year as MEC for Finance, Economic Development , Environmental Affairs and Tourism. "The task ahead for Premier Mabuyane is no small feat. We are confident that Comrade Mabuyane will be equal to the task of reasserting the confidence of all people in the Eastern Cape and the provincial government." The ANC said that it believes that the provincial government under the stewardship of Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, will give assurance to all people of the province that it remains committed to renewal , clean, effective and caring governance. "The African National Congress wishes Comrade Mabuyane, Presiding Officers and all MPL's well in their new deployments and assures them the support of the organisation in the execution of their tasks to create a better life for all the people of the Eastern Cape." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 