 St Francis Bay - The Humansdorp Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, expressed his gratitude to both local police officers and residents for working together to arrest a St Francis Bay man for possession of illicit drugs on Tuesday. "On Tuesday, at around 1am, police received information about a possible drugs post, a house situated in Mzamowethu area, St Francis Bay," described police spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. "Moments later, police in possession of a search warrant raided a house and seized illicit drugs with an estimated street value of R11 535." He said that inside the house, police found 29 bankies of crystal meth (tik), 40 full mandrax tablets with several broken pieces of mandrax tablets and R 1 626 in cash stashed in several areas inside the house. "Police arrested a man, who was inside the house for possession of illicit drugs." The 47-year-old suspect is due to appear in the Humansdorp Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday on charges of possession of mandrax and crystal meth (tik). "This incident follows last week’s drugs bust inside a house in Humansdorp, where a police patrol and narcotics dog, Calif, sniffed out the hidden stash of drugs worth half a million inside false cupboard compartments and three suspects were arrested," Sergeant Nkohli added. "The trio was arrested during Operation Fiela on Thursday, at around 6am, inside a house in Bureau Street, Humansdorp. "On Friday, the three, Jean Claude Ndayisenga (19), Jean Claude Ntirujinama (28) and Ibrahim Nkurunziza (45) briefly appeared at the Humansdorp Magistrate’s Court and their case was postponed to Wednesday, 22 May 2019 for further investigation. "The three accused persons remain in custody." Brigadier Lebok said "These incidents are the results of relentless efforts from various stakeholders including concerned citizens who provided police with solid information about the drug posts. "Police are also urging other residents to assist in identifying mushrooming drug posts in their areas via Crime Stop 08600 10111. The fight against proliferation of drugs could only be won with the assistance of the community." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 