 Port Elizabeth - A shoot out between Port Elizabeth police and armed suspects in Motherwell on Monday night saw one suspect fatally wounded and another injured following an apparent house robbery. "This followed after a silver VW Polo was taken during a house robbery in Kwanobuhle, Uitenhage," described police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "At 20:45, three suspects armed with a firearm tied up the house occupants and then stole a silver VW Polo belonging to the couple." In less than an hour, Motherwell Cluster Operational Command Centre members spotted the speeding vehicle on the R335 (Addo Road) at 21:35. "As the VW Polo sped past them, the police members attempted to stop it and a short vehicle chase ensued along the R335," Capt Beetge added. "The suspects inside the Polo opened the doors and shot towards the police chasing them. "The police members returned fire and the vehicle then stopped." All four suspects then got out of the vehicle and, in an attempt to evade arrest, started to flee while one suspect continued firing at the pursuing police. "The SAPS members returned fire and managed to arrest one 25-year-old suspect that was wounded in both legs. A second suspect passed away on the scene from fatal wounds inflicted during the shoot out," Capt Beetge added. "A further two air-operated replica firearms were found and confiscated on the scene. "It is suspected that the real firearm was taken by the two suspects that managed to run away to evade arrest." "SAPS members will protect themselves which might include the use of lethal force when being shot at by armed suspects," said Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie. General Rabie applauded the arrest and added that "replica or toy fire arms are regarded as fire arms in terms of the Firearm Control Act and using it to commit crimes carries the same threat as real fire arms. Police will use the full force of the law to protect life and property against suspects using illegal fire arms." The 25-year-old suspect was taken for medical treatment at Dora Nginza Hospital and will appear before the Motherwell Magistrate's Court as soon as he is able to attend court. He will be facing charges of possession of a stolen vehicle as well as attempted murder on the police members. He will also face additional charges in the Uitenhage Magistrates Court for armed robbery. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. 