 Port Elizabeth - Vote counting and verifying is currently underway at various voting stations throughout South Africa after voting ended in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections. The Electoral Commission said that it is extremely pleased with the smooth progress of voting on Wednesday, despite isolated incidents where voting operations were adversely affected by inclement weather, community unrest, power outages and some logistical challenges. "Strong thunderstorms were reported in the early evening in the Free State where 16 temporary voting stations in Manguang were blown down by strong winds and where heavy rain affected the conditions underfoot," the IEC noted. "In Nelson Mandela Bay and Craddock in the Eastern Cape heavy rain and winds also affected operations in more than 30 temporary voting stations. "In a number of areas voting after dark was affected by power outages including in KwaZulu-Natal (specifically Umlazi), Limpopo (Vuwani and Giyani) and Gauteng (parts of Johannesburg)." 08:11 - Latest Eastern Cape election results have see the ANC's comfortable lead being reduced. It is currently now at 55% while the DA has increased support to 26% and tthe EFF is now at 8% of the vote. 07:00 - For some, it is perhaps no surprise that the African National Congress (ANC) is leading in the Eastern Cape. The province has traditionally been known as the home of the ANC and the birth-place of many of its respected leaders. Add the so-called 'Cyril Ramaphosa effect' voters have been going back to the party in the province, which is now led by ANC candidate for Premier, Oscar Lubabalo Mabuyane. He is understood to have healed most of the divisions in the party following his defeat of former Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, at a tense conference in October 2017 and has given the party in the province a sense of purpose. While Mabuyane looks set to succeed Masualle, Masualle will be heading to Parliament. In the Eastern Cape, 498 810 votes were cast on Wednesday. Voter turnout was 61.17 %. According to the IEC, 491 503 of the votes are valid while 7 307 votes were spoilt. Out of the 4 791 voting districts, 1 510 districts had submitted their results at the time of publishing. So far the African National Congress (ANC) was mantaining a comfortable lead at 340 495 or over 69% of the votes counted so far. The Democratic Alliance (DA) trailed behind at 83 149 votes or 16.92 % of the votes. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) are in third at 31 934 or 6.50 %. The United Democratic Movement (UDM), the VF Plus and new party, the African Transformation Movement (ATM) received just above 1%. The rest of the parties are below 1% of the vote. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. 