 Port Elizabeth - Speculation and guessing continues after the Presidency on Sunday dismissed media reports that President Cyril Ramaphosa, who was sworn in over the weekend as the sixth President of the Republic, will announce his new Cabinet on Monday. "The Presidency has noted media reports that President Ramaphosa is expected to announce the members of the new executive tomorrow, Monday 27 May 2019. "The Presidency wishes to advise that the announcement will be made later in the week," said Khusela Diko, Spokesperson to the President."The Constitution of the Republic stipulates that the President must assume office within five days of being elected by the National Assembly – and thereafter appoint a Cabinet and assign its powers and functions." However, in the absence of an indication of the exact date is fuelling the guessing games. "President Cyril Ramaphosa is emphatic that the new executive must possess requisite skills, experience, representivity and a commitment to the public services that will take the work of the 6th administration forward," Diko said. Reports indicate that many of the African National Congress (ANC) MPs with ambitions to be in Ramaphosa's Cabinet, but have been flagged by the party's Integrity Commission are to make appearances before the Commission to try and clear their names. Ramaphosa's Deputy, David Mabuza, last week postponed his swearing in as an MP so that he could clear his name before the same commission, which had flagged him for wrongdoing. It is not clear if he will return as Deputy President - with speculation that Ramaphosa could consider Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, his former rival to the Presidency of the ANC, or Naledi Pandor, as his Deputy. Ramaphosa also has a tough choice on Pravin Gordhan, who was viewed as one of his key allies. Gordhan was found guilty of improper conduct by Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, over his 2010 approval of former SA Revenue Service deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay’s early retirement and payout. Speculation is also rife whether he will appoint Bathabile Dlamini back into his cabinet. She has previously faced allegations of wrongdoing, but she remains a powerful ANC member. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 