 Port Alfred - Eastern Cape Premier, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, on Tuesday announced the appointment of members of the provincial executive Council (MECs) on Tuesday afternoon in Port Alfred. Mabuyane, who is also the African National Congress (ANC) Eastern Cape Chairperson, was elected unopposed and sworn in as the new Eastern Cape Premier on Wednesday last week after the ANC won the Eastern Cape. In South Africa, the Executive Council of a province is the cabinet of the provincial government. The Executive Council consists of the Premier and five to ten other members, who have the title 'Member of the Executive Council', commonly abbreviated to 'MEC'. MECs are appointed by the Premier from amongst the members of the provincial legislature; he or she can also dismiss them. The provincial legislature may force the Premier to reconstitute the council by passing a motion of no confidence in the Executive Council excluding the Premier. If the legislature passes a motion of no confidence in the Executive Council including the Premier, then the Premier and the MECs must resign. The Premier designates powers and functions to the MECs; conventionally they are assigned portfolios in specific areas of responsibility. They are accountable to the provincial legislature, both individually and as a collective, and must regularly report to the legislature on the performance of their responsibilities. The Western Cape, the only province to have adopted its own constitution, chose to call its executive council the 'Provincial Cabinet', and its MECs 'Provincial Ministers'. Mabuyane's cabinet has six women and four men. He brought back Xolile Nqata, who was Eastern Cape MEC for Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (DRDAR) in the last administration; Mlungisi Mvoko, who was Eastern Cape MEC for Educaion; Babalo Madikizela, who was MEC for Human Settlements; and Weziwe Tikana, who was MEC for Safety and Liaison. The newly appointed MECs are Fundile Gade, who was African National Congress (ANC) Chief Whip in the Eastern Cape Legislature; former Buffalo City Metro councillor, Sindiswa Gomba; former Sarah Baartman District Municipality Speaker, Nonqkubela Pieters; former OR Tambo District Municipality Executive Mayor, Nomakhosazana Meth; Fezeka Nkomonye-Bayeni of the South African Communist Party (SACP) and Siphokazi Mani-Lusithi from the ANC Youth Youth League. The new Eastern Cape MEC's for the 6th Administration is as follows;      Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 