 Jeffreys Bay - A fishing boat crew were forced to beach their vessel on a Jeffreys Bay beach over the weekend after encountering engine problems while out at sea. According to Rieghard Janse van Rensburg, National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) Jeffreys Bay station commander, at 11h45, on Sunday, they provided assistance to a craft out at sea while we were at sea conducting our weekly routine training exercises. "The crew of a small fishing craft reported to be having issues with their starboard motor," he described. "We provided some assistance as well as a spare set of spark plugs, but the motor mechanical problems of the one motor could not be resolved and the options were considered on how to get the vessel safely ashore in fairly big sea swell conditions on only her one remaining motor."  Janse van Rensburg added that the beaching on main beach was identified to be the best solution and we took the skipper onto our sea rescue craft to go to evaluate the surf conditions for the beach recovery. "We then returned him to his craft, took all their valuables and the second crewman onto our sea rescue craft and our sea rescue craft Eddie Beaumont II escorted him into the surf zone," he said. "Additional NSRI crew beached our sea rescue craft Project Group Rescuer at Main Beach and cleared the beach for safety and stood by on the beach ready to provide assistance. "The Spring Tide surf conditions were challenging and the casualty craft skipper managed to beach his boat safely on the power of only the one motor and once safely recovered they required no further assistance. "The skipper of the casualty craft was commended for taking all safety precautions to get safely ashore." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. 