 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape police, as part of the Eastern Cape Provincial Joint Operational Centre (Prov Joc), say that it is all systems go for the Eastern Cape Province to hold the 6th National and Provincial Government Elections, which will be held from Monday until Wednesday. The Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, over the weekend, indicated that the SAPS is ready to deploy sufficient members throughout the Province to ensure that the election process takes place peacefully at the 4 791 polling stations in the Province. The Eastern Cape PROVJOC is a multi-stakeholder platform with representation from both the National and Provincial spheres. It’s main objective is to provide support to all role players towards the smooth running of the election process. “I would like to assure members of the public that all safety and security measures have been put in place to create an environment for crime free elections. We completed our operational plan ahead of time and we have began deploying police members from the 5th May 2019," she said. "Certain areas have been identified as hotspot areas which we have categorized as low, medium or high risk areas. To this end we have put measures in place to mitigate any potential threats in accordance with the threat assessment. To this end we have ensured that additional manpower and reserve forces are available to deal with any eventualities or situations that may require speedy interventions." She requested that members of the public not to take weapons of any kind to the polling stations and urge them to adhere to the instructions of the presiding officers at all times. “I would like to emphasize that, we will not tolerate any form of criminality, intimidation and disruptive behaviour, including drunkenness at the polling stations. We are aware of instigators in various parts of the Province and we will deal with them without fear or favour,” concluded Lt Gen Ntshinga. It is an obligation of Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) to ensure each South African citizen who is eligible to vote does so freely and fairly. “As the IEC, we are ready to ensure that all the citizens of the Eastern Cape cast their votes between the 6 and 8 May 2019. We have had a large number of citizens applying for special votes this year but all systems are in place to ensure that all those voters cast their votes. The Provincial Results Operational Centre (ROC) will be officially launched today, 5th May 2019,” said Ms Khayakazi Magudumane, the IEC Provincial Executive Officer. To ensure access to the correct documentation, the Department of Home Affairs (DoHA) will extend operational hours at frontline offices from the 6th to the 8th May 2019 in a drive to assist eligible voters to collect identity documents (IDs) they had applied for, or to apply for new IDs or Temporary Identity Certificates (TIC). To assist the people who lost their belongings including IDs in the flood-ravaged areas in the Eastern Cape, Port St Johns in particular, the DoHA has been hard at work in ensuring that people get correct documentation that will enable them to vote. The Department will continue to issue more temporal identification documents to those affected by the floods. The Department therefore appeals to citizens to collect their smart ID cards or green ID books, or to apply for TIC so that they may exercise their democratic right to vote. The frontline offices of the DoHA will also align its operational hours for identification services to those of the IEC. This means that operational hours of the DoHA offices will be extended from 16h00 to 19h00 to cater for people seeking access to services on these two special voting days. This will provide further opportunities for citizens to collect their uncollected documents (from 08h00 to 19h00). Home Affairs frontline offices will also provide public services on Election Day, from 07h00 until 21h00. Anyone in possession of an enabling document like a smart ID card, green ID book or TIC will be afforded an opportunity to cast his/her vote. Eastern Cape MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), Fikile Xasa has called for tolerance over this period in order to realise the objective of peaceful elections without any disruptions across the province. He urged all communities to exercise their right to vote and assured them that all the challenges relating to service delivery in some parts of the Province will be attended to continuously by the Government. “Government calls for patience from all community members as Government will continue to attend to service delivery concerns even beyond elections. We encourage our communities to exercise their right to vote in the upcoming elections and to do so in secret in a free and fair environment,” said MEC Xasa. He added that all teams are in place at provincial, district and local levels to support the election process composed of leadership representatives from the three spheres of government. “We would like to see visible political leadership to ensure that any possible acts of disruption are attended to urgently. We all have a national duty to secure the right of all South Africans to exercise their hard won right to choose the leadership to represent them in the 6th administration. We dare not fail,” said MEC Xasa. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 