 Port Elizabeth - Relentless efforts made by Port Elizabeth police and investigators in arresting gang affiliates and securing convictions in the Northern Areas yielded yet another successful conviction. This time a teenager was convicted and jailed for 12 years for homicide and robbery. "On Monday, 12 June 2017, at about 15:30, Ralph Vorster (35) was driving his taxi when he picked up two passengers in Barberry Drive," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The one passenger was known to Vorster. "As Vorster was driving in Barberry Drive in Ext 31, the 15-year-old (age at the time of the offence) produced a firearm." She said that the conductor was ordered out of the vehicle. "Vorster was shot several times while seated in the taxi. "Two weeks later, the 15-year-old suspect was arrested by the Visible Gang Intervention Team in Lingilihle Street in Bethelsdorp," Col Naidu said. "He remained in custody until the finalisation of the case. "The teenager is also awaiting trial for another murder and attempted murder case, which allegedly took place in Foxglove Street in Ext 31 on 24 January 2017." She said that he was on the run since the alleged commission of the crime. He is charged and will again appear in court on 14 July 2019. The juvenile was sentenced on Thursday in the Port Elizabeth Regional court for the murder of Vorster as follows: "Effectively he will serve 12 years in prison." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the investigating officer, D/Sgt Xolani Peta. He added that "as a society, we need to nurture our children in the right direction". Maj Gen Patekile called on parents and the communities to help the youth steer on the right path. "The youth is our future and we cannot allow them to wander off on the path of destruction," he said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 