 King Williams Town - More than 60 suspects were arrested over the past weekend in King Williams Town during various police operations. According to police information, the suspects were arrested while police were busy with their routine patrols in the Central Business area and in other areas within the King William’s Town Cluster policing area. "There were also searches that police conducted in the areas and they managed to arrest suspects, aged between 23 and 45 years, for crimes ranging from drunkenness, possession of Burglary residence, Common Robbery, House robbery, Theft of motor vehicle, Possession of drugs, Rape, Warrant of arrest, Murder, Fraud, Common Assault and Malicious damage to property," said police spokesperson, Captain Siphokazi Mawisa. "There were also dangerous weapons and drugs confiscated by the Police. "Police with the assistance of traffic officers also managed to arrest 19 suspects, who were driving under the influence of alcohol around Zwelitsha and King Williams Town area." Capt Mawisa said that this sends a strong message to all drivers that they must think twice before taking the last drink as Police will not rest in fighting drunken driving. "All of these suspects will appear at various Magistrate's Courts." King William’s Town SAPS Cluster Commander, Brigadier Luntu Ngubelanga, said that police are committed in fighting crime and in full force in tracking down the perpetrators of crime. "Police will continue to work actively towards preventing any form of corruption or criminal activities and to bring the perpetrator thereof to justice." He also thanked the community for sharing valuable information with SAPS and encouraged them to report any criminal activities to 08600 10111. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  