 Port Elizabeth - On Tuesday night, at about 22:00, unknown gunmen opened fire on a privately owned taxi while it was busy offloading a passenger Ndebele Street, in Soweto on Sea, Port Elizabeth. "The taxi driver then sped off towards Zwide satellite police station to seek help from police," said police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "On arrival at the police station, the driver and the six passengers (including the injured female) got out of the white Quantum and went into the Zwide Community Safety Centre (CSC)." He said that the police members on duty were busy contacting an ambulance for the injured woman when the unknown attackers returned and started firing shots at the parked Quantum minibus. "The SAPS members, on hearing the shots being fired outside the police building and fearing for an attack on them and the persons in the CSC, shot out the lights in the CSC." Capt Beetge said that the attackers then fled the scene and the members established that the attack was on the minibus and not on the police station. "The injured 58-year-old female was taken to a local hospital for medical treatment," he described. "The motive for the attack cannot be confirmed at this point, but an intensive investigation have been launched by the Eastern Cape Provincial Organised Crime Investigation team." Any person with information that can assist police in this investigation can contact Lt Col Willie Mayi at 082 697 5914 Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, strongly condemned the incident and added that "we (the SAPS) are making a call on our community to come forward with information about the suspects." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel.  