 East London - The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape says it welcomes the new Provincial Executive Council announced by the Eastern Cape Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane on Tuesday. The SACP congratulated the newly appointed Members of the Executive Council (MECs) who are the following: 1.   Comrade Weziwe Tikana – Transport, Safety and Liaison 2.   Comrade Mlungisi Mvoko – Provincial Treasury/ DEDEAT 3.   Comrade Xolile Nqatha – Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs 4.   Comrade Nomakhosazana Meth – Rural Development and Agrarian Reform 5.   Comrade Babalo Madikizela – Public Works 6.   Comrade Fundile Gade – Education 7.   Comrade Nonkqubela Peters – Human Settlements 8.   Comrade Fezeka Nkomonye-Bayeni – Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture. 9.   Comrade Siphokazi Mani-Lusithi – Social Development 10.Comrade Sindiswa Gomba – Health "We trust the newly appointed MECs will through their work put the interests of the people first and serve them with diligence. It is important that the movement use the clear mandate given by the people of the province to transform their lives," said Siyabonga Mdodi, SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson. "The people have spoken, the mandate is clear the work must start now. "The mandate given to the ANC led democratic forces is clear. It is the mandate to intensify the programmes that will cushion the Eastern Cape populace against poverty." Mdodi said that the mandate is that of moving with speed in dismantling the networks of corporate capture in the government departments and local state throughout the province. "This is a mandate to move the national democratic revolution, our national transformation programme, on to a second, more radical phase. The immediate strategic task of this phase of our revolution is to complete our liberation and achieve economic and social emancipation," he added. "This requires radical structural transformation to build a people’s economy, create decent work and systematically eradicate economic inequalities, unemployment, poverty and social insecurity. "As the SACP, we wish to express a word of gratitude to the 5th Executive Council on the work done in serving the people of the Eastern Cape. We also commit ourselves to work with the incoming Executive Council in transforming the lives of the people." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 