 Port Elizabeth - The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has injected R500 000 into agricultural projects at local schools and community based projects with a donation of fencing material, livestock feed, water tanks, farming tools, storage containers and seed amongst others. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Member of the Mayoral Committee for Economic Development, Tourism and Agriculture, Noluthando Pink, pledged her support to the beneficiaries of the twenty-five projects and said follow-up visits must take place to ensure that the equipment and material are used for its intended purposes. “We want to see you grow and access markets in order for you to sell your produce. Agriculture is critical in efforts to ensure food security. If we do not work the land, we will not be able to grow the necessary produce in order to put nutritious food on our tables. “It is not our intention to provide you with support and leave you on your own. We will have site visits to make sure all the equipment, tools and material given out today, are used to grow and improve your projects,” Pink said. Today, Tiryville Food Garden received seeds, a water tank, fencing material and garden equipment, the Alushi Foundation Trust garden equipment and seeds, John Masiza Primary (garden equipment and seeds), Seyisi Primary School (seeds and land preparation), Morningside High School (garden equipment, land preparation and seeds) and the Uitenhage Farmer’s Trust received cattle feed. Beneficiaries applauded the municipality for this emancipating initiative. Nomawethu Mnyani from Masizame Small Farm said: "This equipment and material will help us to feed our livestock and it motivates us to improve our yields so that we can become commercial farmers and be able to create more jobs in our townships. “This is indeed a development in action. Our children will become the farmers of tomorrow because we will be able to sustain and grow our projects,” she added. The Pendla Public School also received garden equipment, land preparation and seeds, KwaMagxaki High School now have garden equipment, land preparation and seeds for their project, Bonzai Primary School (garden equipment, water pipes, water tank and seeds) and the Plaatjie Family Farm livestock feed. The KwaNoxolo Clinic also benefits from seeds, land preparation and equipment, the Siwa Farm (livestock feed), Mniki Farm (livestock feed), Nakanjani (livestock feed) and the Mzingisi Project also received livestock feed. Ten other projects will receive their share of donations shortly. The focus of the project is to support sustainable initiatives to address socio-economic factors such as unemployment and was evaluated by the Economic Development, Tourism and Agriculture Committee and approved by the Mayoral Committee. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 