 King Williams Town - The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday said that it welcomes the appointment of Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane as the Premier Candidate of the province. Mabuyane replaced former Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, as ANC Eastern Cape Chairperson, at a tense provincial congress that was held in October 2017. The conference suffered from delays as well as violence that saw around eight delegates in hospital.  Mabuyane was then tipped to replace his one-time boss as the next Premier as the party's candidate for Premier. He was understood to be backing Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Jacob Zuma, which Ramaphosa did after protracted negotiations with Zuma failed and Zuma was forced to resign. Masualle on the other hand was understood to be backing Zuma's ex-wife, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, who lost to Ramaphosa at the ANC National Elective Conference in December 2017. A group of ANC supporters tried unsuccessfully to challenge Mabuyane's election. He was later appointed Eastern Cape Finance, Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism. This year, he tabled his maiden budget as MEC for Finance. While Mabuyane becomes the new Eastern Cape premier, Masualle is now expected to make his way to represent the party at the National Assembly. According to the ANC in the Eastern Cape, the appointment of Mabuyane for Eastern Cape Premier is a development which it believes "will strengthen political stability and usher in a renewed vigour in terms of bringing about a better life to all the people of the province". "Not only is Comrade Mabuyane the right candidate for this leadership position, but he also possesses the vision to steer the province to greater heights and improved service delivery - a path that had been steered by his predecessor, Comrade Phumulo Masualle," said Lulama Ngcukayitobi, ANC Eastern Cape Provincial Secretary. "The appointment of the Premier Candidate who has been part of the Executive shows the ANC's commitment to ensuring that there is smooth transition in the province. This testifies to the ANC's ability to lead and ensure that there is stability in the province. "Critically, Comrade Mabuyane will operate as part of a collective of men and women who are tried and tested in championing the cause of our people." Ngcukayitobi added that Mabuyane brings a wealth of experience which became evident in the manner he led the Department of Finance, Economic Development,Environmental Affairs and Tourism in his recent short stint in government. "The ANC would like to assure the people of Eastern Cape that the transition will be a seamless one and that there will be policy continuity," he described. "The ANC calls on all the social partners, including business, labour, civil society and other community-based organisations to lend the incoming leadership, to be led by Comrade Oscar Mabuyane the same level of support that has become the hallmark of the relationship that the ANC Provincial government enjoys with all sectors of our society. "We have no doubt that, working together; we can fast-track our efforts in dealing with the triple challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality in the province. Our province today is a better place than it was in 1994." Ngcukayitobi said that the ANC has no doubt that the good work that has been "witnessed in Province, both at the level of the ANC and Government, will continue as we take to another level our quest to create a better life for all South Africans and grow South Africa". Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 