 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Thursday announced that it is now closer to retaking the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality after the IEC confirmed the replacement of rogue DA Councillor, Victor Manyathi. Manyathi was accused of helping the then opposition parties oust the then DA-led coalition government and former Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip. The DA tried to get rid of Manyathi – and even appointed his replacement, but the Port Elizabeth High Court ruled that procedure had not been followed and that he was still a DA councillor until the day he chooses to resign from the party. "I am happy to announce that the Democratic Alliance has today received confirmation from the Independent Electoral Commission that the vacancy of Victor Mbulelo Manyati has been filled," said DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. The IECin its letter, seen by RNEWS, confirmed that Manyati’s position has been filled by former DA MP, Dr Malcolm Figg. "Prior to stepping down, former acting municipal manager, Peter Neilson, earlier this month confirmed Manyati’s vacancy to the IEC," Bhanga said. "This means that the chapter of betrayal and deceit has come to an end. "This, together with the recent wins of wards 35 and 37 in the Northern Areas, means we are now back on track to take back Nelson Mandela Bay." Bhnga promised; "The days of the ANC/EFF/UDM coalition of corruption are numbered. Mayor Mongameli Bobani should start packing up his office, we are going to take back the city." Last week, the DA won back two seats once hed by two other rogue Councillors, Trever Louw and Neville Higgins. This gives the DA and its former coalition partners some parity with the ANC-led coalition government that is currently running the Metro. In the worst case scenario, there could be a hung council in the Bay. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 