 Port Elizabeth - Port Elizabeth police are investigating after three persons were shot and killed on Wednesday night in what is suspected to have been targeted hit in the New Brighton and Motherwell areas. "In the first incident, 39-year-old Vuyolethu Xana was shot numerous times in Makwela Street, New Brighton, by unknown suspects," described police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "This followed minutes after he left his home in Makwela street and was shot and killed in the street a few houses futher away." Capt Beetge said that the motive for the murder is unknown. He said that in the second incident, shots were heard at about 19:50 by residents in Magqabi Street, Shukushukuma, Motherwell. "On searching in the area, the two bodies of a male and female were found next to their bed in a flatlet in Magqabi Street," Capt Beetge said. "The male was identified as 31-year-old Sizwe Sithole, who lived at that address, but the female victim has not been identified yet. "It is suspected that she was a lady friend or girlfriend of Sizwe." He described that Sizwe was shot numerous times in the head and his lady friend was shot in her lower body. "The motive for the murders are unknown as no valuables were taken." Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, has strongly condemned the killings. "The SAPS investigation teams are working round the clock to solve these hit style murders, which all have different possible motives," he added. "However our communities needs to commit themselves in giving information to police of the culprits responsible for these murders, as well as identify where their fire arms are being kept. "We need to get these illegal fire arms off our streets to prevent these shootings and murders and also other crimes such as armed robberies from taking place." Any person with information that could assist police in these muder investigations can contact the Eastern Cape Organised Crime Investigation team, Lt Colonel Willie Mayi at 082 697 5914. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 