 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape Finance, Economic Development, Environmental Affairs MEC, Lubabalo Mabuyane, is expected to make make two key tourism sector announcements at the Tourism Indaba taking place in Durban on Friday. Mabuyane will announce a R190 million investment into the construction of a new state of the art lodge and Villas at the uMkhambathi nature reserve through a partnership between uMkhambathi Land Trust, which won the land claim for the reserve, Private Investor (Collin Bell of Mkhambathi Matters) and the Eastern Cape government, through the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency. "The investment will bring the local villagers into the mainstream of the tourism economy through ownership, create opportunities for local businesses during the construction phase, create jobs for the locals," his department said. During the Tourism Indaba, MEC Mabuyane, the ECPTA Board Chairperson, Mrs Nomkhita Mona, Collin Bell of uMkhambathi Matters and the leadership of uMkhambathi Land Trust will make an announcement about the new tourism investment at the Community owned land in Mkhambathi. "At the heart of the announcement is to inform the tourism sector, especially the product buyers, agencies and tourists of the new facility that is being constructed in the Eastern Cape to add more destinations into the province’s tourism portfolio," the department said. "The Investment is a Community, Public and Private Partnership that was a result of land claim lodged by about 40 000 members of community from 7 villages that make uMkhambathi. "The investment was then facilitated by the ECPTA, which sought the services of Vumelana services. An advert was published calling for interested companies to submit expression of interest. The investor was the successful company from that process." The structure of the Investment is build, operate and transfer. The latter part of transfer is to transfer to the community, the uMkhambathi Land Trust. There is a Joint Liaison Committee (JLC) that involves members of the Land Trust (the community), Investor and the ECPTA, monitors the implementation of the agreement that was signed by all the parties above. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. 