 King Williams Town - Two dangerous prisoners, who escaped from the Middledrift Correctional Centre on the eve of the National and Provincial General Elections, the 7th of May, are expected in court on Monday to face additional charges of escaping from lawful custody. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, applauded what she described as “a remarkable breakthrough” in the search for the dangerous prisoners. "These arrests are a sequel to an intelligence driven operation which included the King William’s Town Flying Squad, K9 Unit, Provincial tracing unit and Zwelitsha detectives," described police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. He said that according to police information, the two escapees are believed to have been moving between Zwelitsha and Sweetwaters when they were spotted near the robots on Thursday. "On realising that they were at the risk of being identified by the police, they started running towards a nearby Public Park where they were subsequently arrested." Brig Kinana said that it was not immediately clear where the two were hiding at and the activities in which they had been involved sincetheir daring escape. "Police investigations are on-going to also establish if they did not commit other crimes after breaking out from the prison." The arrested suspects, Aviwe Nkwalase, aged 29, and Sizwe Mhlana, aged 33. They are now facing charges relating to escaping from lawful custody and are expected to appear in the Middledrift Magistrate’s Court on Monday. "The third suspect, Andisa Vas is still on the run and the police are determined to make an arrest soon. Again, people are cautioned not to make any attempt to apprehend the remaining suspect as it is believed that he might be armed," Brig Kinana warned. Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga reiterated her concerns about criminality which is perpetuated by those that had already been convicted and sentenced by the courts of law. “Once again I wish to appreciate the work of the integrated forces and community which resulted to the arrest of these offenders. Such escapes had the potential to traumatise the victims of the crimes that were committed by these escapees.” General Ntshinga concluded. Anyone with information that can lead to the immediate arrest of the outstanding suspect, may please call the nearest police station or Crime Stop at 08 600 10 111. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 