 Port Elizabeth - In an attempt to debunk scam rumours of his event, organiser of the Christmas Luminosity and Market event hosted a pre-launch of their upcoming event in Victoria Park in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. The legitimacy of the event was called into question after a post on Facebook warned possible participants that the event was a scam. Having been popular in Cape Town and Johannesburg, the organiser of Christmas Luminosity, Dave Huni wanted to bring the lights down to Port Elizabeth for the first time. While at first many locals seemed very interested the scam post made people cautious and untrusting of the event. This Christmas themed event has thousands of multi-coloured lights strung up, fake snow machines and fun-filled sights for families and friends to enjoy. In order to put talks of this event being a scam to rest, Dave hosted a pre-launch of the upcoming light festival on Saturday for the media and a few lucky families. A number of lights and illuminated objects were brought down from Johannesburg to give Port Elizabeth a hint of what is to be expected when the event takes place from the 6th till the 8th of December. “What you see here is what we could fit into one truck, we have about 30 more that will come for the main event and light up Victoria Park,” said Dave. At the pre-launch Victoria Park was beautifully lit by an arch made up of multi-coloured lights, a fake snow machine, illuminated bouncy balls, an inflatable snow globe, light displays and some new illuminated devices that they will be showcasing for the first time in Port Elizabeth. “We are here today to put the rumours of us being a scam to rest, and to show the people that this is a real event. So please come when we have everything up in December and see what we are all about,” said Dave. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 