 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) on Wednesday alleged that six operating theatres at Livingstone Hospital, in Port Elizabeth, are standing empty while more than forty highly qualified personnel, including surgeons, theatre sisters, anaesthetists and auxiliary theatre staff sit idle, because of a bungled tender. "Hundreds of patients are lying waiting in overflowing surgery wards, because the theatres have no linen," described Jane Cowley (MPL), Shadow MEC for Health. "The collapse of the Livingstone Hospital is complete. Senior management is a misnomer at the facility. Those in charge at the hospital are incapable of managing a thing. "The bungled order for new linen is just the latest in a string of errors that have left desperate patients waiting for weeks, and in some cases even months, for surgeries." Cowley said that doctors and surgeons are equally desperate to fulfil their mandate to provide care for those in need, but are left hamstrung by this lack of capacity at top management level. "The Department of Health has a reputation for employing political cadres instead of capable managers in health facilities. Livingstone Hospital is no exception," she said. "In the real world, the top management of the hospital would be fired. In the Eastern Cape Department of Health, they are more likely to be promoted. "I have written to the Minister of Health to request his intervention and to request that capable managers are deployed at Livingstone Hospital so that normal daily hospital activities and operations can resume. "The Department is clearly incapable of resolving the issue at provincial level." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 