 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Nelson Mandela Bay on Wednesday accused the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) of putting itself above the needs of the people of Nelson Mandela Bay ahead of a crucial special Council Meeting on Thursday, which is expected to decide the fate of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani. "The EFF has once again exposed itself as an organisation that only cares about its own narrow political outcomes instead of the interests of the people who elected them," said Solly Malatsi - DA National Spokesperson. "The EFF has withdrawn its support of tomorrow’s Motion of No Confidence in Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB) Mayor Mongameli Bobani - citing the real possibility of the Democratic Alliance (DA) once again occupying the mayoral seat. "Whilst the EFF would like to claim that it is consistent in its decision-making, the reality is that the EFF is a party devoid of principles. If this was a principled decision, the EFF would have supported the Motion of No Confidence in Mayor Bobani whether it would mean the return of a DA-led government or not." Malatsi said that during former Mayor, Athol Trollip’s time at the helm of NMB, he cleaned up the rot left behind by the ANC, brought about tangible change and got the metro back to working again. He added: "In the 24 months in charge, the DA-led metro achieved a host of successes: "Mayor Bobani has done nothing to improve the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, nor has he built on the progress the previous DA-led administration made in delivering services and opportunities to the people of the Bay." Malatsi further said that; "In fact, NMB has regressed so much that stagnant service delivery and looting have become the norm in the City. The EFF’s insistence to keep NMB in the hands of the Coalition of Corruption makes them complicit in the ongoing collapse of service delivery and good governance in NMB. "As refuse is piling on the streets, irregular appointments are now rife in the City and its financial health deteriorates – the EFF has chosen the path of political immaturity instead of doing the right thing." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 