 Bhisho - On Tuesday, Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, met with the representatives of the victims of the Bhisho Massacre with the intention to attend to some of the concerns they have been raising with the provincial government. "The committee I met was led by the chairperson Mr Boyce Nqono, who was shot and injured by the racists apartheid police officers and Ciskei government police officers during the Bhisho Massacre," said Mabuyane. "The provincial Government is working with them to implement the proposals they submitted to the provincial government for their benefit and for the benefit of the community. "I share their sentiments that there was no need for the provincial government to delay the resolution of some of the concerns and needs communicated to the provincial government by the representatives of these selfless cadres, who fought for our freedom with some paying the ultimate price." The Premier said that as part of the discussions at this meeting, they agreed that government is going to assist the committee representing the victims of the Bhisho Massacre to establish the Bhisho Massacre foundation and a trust. "The foundation will be involved in the running of the Bhisho Massacre memorial site monument building in Bhisho and other fundraising initiatives linked to the work of the foundation," he described. "Our involvement as government is not to run the foundation and the trust for them them. We want to make sure that they set up and manage a sustainable entity that will raise funds and even trade for the economic benefit of the victims and their families but also to keep the story of the Bhisho Massacre alive. "We will work with them to develop that facility to be an attractive tourist destination, events and conference center which government and private businesses will hire for their own meetings the same way we pay for other hired venues." Mabuyane said that this center will also be used as a museum and the victims of the Bhisho massacre are the best people to tell the story of the massacre, the events leading to the day, events of the day and life after the massacre to tourists. "We are linking this facility to the rich heritage route we have in the province. "The provincial government wants this center to be a sustainable business so that it makes money for the victims and the children of the victims. Some of the victims and their children will get opportunities in the operations of the center," the Premier said. "Government is now moving with improved speed to provide specialist medical health care and counseling to the victims of the Bhisho massacre that requested these services. The departments of health and social development have been tasked to ensure that all the 13 victims who need medical healthcare are assisted immediately. "We have an opportunity to use the state of the art facility that government built in Bhisho to benefit these victims so that there is a proper meaning to the commemoration of their contribution to the liberation of our country." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 