 King Williams Town - A State Prosecutor is again expected in the King Williams Town Magistrate's Court at the end of November after he was arrested by the Eastern Cape Serious Corruption Investigation unit for alleged corruption and extortion on Tuesday. "The Prosecutor’s arrest follows a complaint that he demanded a R5 000 payment from an accused who was arrested for a drunk and driving incident in January last year," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi. "In June of the same year, the suspect received from a call from Prosecutor, Ncedo Moyeni (45), informing him about the blood alcohol results that they were over the required limit. "The accused, accompanied by his wife, met with Moyeni in his office where he allegedly demanded a R5 000 payment to make sure that the docket is closed. "He managed to raise R4 000 and paid Moyeni with a promise to pay the balance in instalments." Brigadier Mulaudzi said that the suspect was however taken aback when he received a call from the investigating officer informing him of his next court appearance on the same matter in July of 2018. "He confronted Moyeni who informed him that any query should be directed to his office," he added. "The matter was reported to the Hawks and it was confirmed that the case was indeed allocated to Moyeni and it was disposed of as withdrawn due to different seal numbers on the blood results. "Moyeni was arrested on Tuesday and he briefly appeared at the King Williams Town regional court." He was granted bail of R1 000 and is expected back in the same court at Zwelitsha on 29 November 2019. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 