 Port Elizabeth - Holiday Coffee Co on the corner of 6th Ave and Villiers Road, Walmer is now offering meals. I have been a big fan of this cafe since they opened their doors earlier this year. They serve one of the best coffees in town and, thanks to their free and fast Wi-Fi, I often meet with clients and co-workers at this venue. Holiday Coffee Co have always served delicious cakes but no breakfast or lunch. This, however, has now changed. Owner of Holiday Coffee Co, Chris Faragher says, “Earlier this month we opened a kitchen and are now serving a variety of breakfasts, toasties and salads.” The menu is short and simple but has something for all tastes. There is a good old breakfast bun for those on the move, a classic breakfast and, my personal favourite, the Open Avo Breakkie. Health-conscious and banting foodies will find the Seasonal Breakfast Bowl to their liking too. The Open Avo Breakkie is a smashed avo covered slice of toasted ciabatta topped with two poached eggs and a delicious roast pepper and sundried tomato pesto. To this can be added bacon, feta or roasted cherry tomatoes. This is a really tasty and very filling meal served to perfection with some interesting garnish. For those wanting light lunch, there is a selection of toasties served with ciabatta bread and mozzarella cheese. Choices include smoked chicken, hickory ham and salami. There is also a bacon, egg and mozzarella option too. The menu is rounded off with a smoked chicken and bacon salad. In much the same manner that Chris has sought to produce excellent coffee, he has now sought to serve great food. “Adding a food menu to our offering has moved Holiday Coffee Co up another notch. Since opening the kitchen we have received a lot of compliments from our regular clients and we have seen a noticeable increase in new visitors,” adds Chris. For more information call +27 (0) 83 444 6653 or email info@holidaycoffee.co.za or visit them at Corner of Villiers Road and 6th Ave, Walmer, Port Elizabeth. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 