 Port Elizabeth - The Port Elizabeth Flying Squad, with the assistance of Kabega Park Crime Prevention Unit members, arrested three suspects, aged between 28 and 36, following an alleged truck hijacking incident. "Members from PE Flying Squad received information regarding a truck that was suspected to be hijacked," said police spokesperson, Captain Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "On Thursday, at approximately 11:00, the members spotted the truck on the N2 and attempted to stop it, but the truck accelerated and a chase ensued. "It is alleged that the suspects fired shots at the police and were seen discarding items out of the truck as they drove. "They swerved off the road and all three suspects alighted and started running." She said that the Flying Squad members chased after them on foot and arrested two suspects while the third suspect was arrested by Kabega Park Crime Prevention Unit. "In an attempt to stop the fleeing suspects, warning shots were fired and one suspect was injured in the hand," Capt Janse Van Rensburg  said. "A toy firearm, a signal jamming device, a car battery and clothing was found scattered in the bushes. "The driver was dropped off earlier by the alleged hijackers and he opened a truck hijacking case at SAPS Bethelsdorp." She added that it is alleged that the driver and his two passengers were stationary in Old Grahamstown Road waiting to do a delivery when five suspects armed with firearms pulled them from the truck and forced them into a Toyota Quantum mini-bus and drove off. "The Quantum and the truck both drove towards Linton Grange where the truck continued onto the freeway and the Quantum drove off and dropped the complainant and his passengers in Booysens Park in the Chatty area," Capt Janse Van Rensburg. "The suspects will be detained on charges of vehicle hijacking and possession of suspected stolen property and will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's court soon." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 