 Port Elizabeth -  In a Tweet, United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader, Bantu Holomisa, announced on Thursday morning, the highly anticipated special Council Meeting of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, which, among other things, was going to decide the fate of Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, has been called off.  By the directive of the Speaker, please note that, both the Special and the Ordinary Council meetings planned for the 17 October 2019 are cancelled until further notice. This is as per the advice received from SAPS of a high security risk associated with this meeting ?@NMBMM. According to Holomisa, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Speaker, Councillor Buyelwa Mafaya, decided to cancel the meeting "until further notice" after she was warned by the SAPS of a security risk at the meeting. On Wednesday, the bid by opposition parties to oust the UDM's Bobani suffered its first setback, whenthe Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) apparently pulled out at the 11th hour. The EFF's Floyd Shivambu took to Twitter to remind Athol Trollip, he will never be Mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay - or of anything, again.  The sooner you accept and internalize that you will never be a Mayor of anything @AtholT the better. We are not going to make you a Mayor, and we will never make that mistake. We are not flip flopping, we are consistent on you. https://t.co/NanCVHmLlS It woul seem Mayor Bobani has again survived a bid to remove him. But it is understood that opposition parties are not giving up and are still expected to go ahead to the Council Chambers hoping to have enough numbers to constitute a quorum. More to follow... Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  