 Alexandria - Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, welcomed the sentence handed out to 51-year-old Lumnkile Manene and 37-year-old Zukile Vena, who were convicted of attacking two elderly women on a farm in Alexandria in the early hours of 29 January this year. She said, "Successful convictions and sentences is based on several pillars including thorough crime scene management, meticulous statements, honest witness testimony and a solid relationship between the investigator and the National Prosecuting Authority!” It is alleged that one of the women, who was a three-week old widow at the time, was in the company of a friend, who came to comfort her friend when the incident took place. "Three suspects entered the house and the incessant barking of her three dogs awoke the victim, who got up to investigate, and as she entered the lounge, she saw the men," said police spokesperson, Captain Mali Govender. "The suspects tied the wrists of both ladies with cable ties and bound their legs with packaging tape to the legs of the chairs. "They then ransacked the house, took an undisclosed amount of cash, a firearm and fled the scene after approximately two hours with an Isuzu bakkie, which belonged to the victim. Both victims were severely traumatised and sustained bruises." Capt Govender said that information of the incident was circulated after one of the victims managed to free herself and alerted the SAPS. "The speedy response by members of the Port Elizabeth Flying Squad resulted in the arrest of two suspects and the recovery of the vehicle approximately one and a half hours after fleeing the scene in Motherwell, Port Elizabeth." Capt Govender said that several items were found in the possession of the other suspects, which included, applications for a firearm license belonging to the owner of the farm, safe keys, cash house hold items taken and the .38 Special Revolver, which was taken from the farm. "Well-known and notorious criminal, Lumnkile Manene had two previous convictions for robbery and escape from lawful custody and was on parole. He had been released a month prior to the incident," she added. "Zukile Vena had five previous convictions, three for housebreakings, one for theft and one for robbery. "Mphathi Advocate Nkomonde, who was shot at the scene was on bail for a robbery on a farm in Somerset East." Capt Govender said that when handing down sentence, Judge Bloem of the Grahamstown High Court commented that, it was a planned robbery and on their arrival at scene, they came with bolt cutters, knowing that the house is secure. They also came with gloves, duct tape, cable ties and knives. Advocate Jan Engelbrecht from the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions worked closely with the Investigating Officer to prepare the case. "The two suspects remained in custody for the duration of the trial." Earlier this month, both the accused were found guilty of Count One - Housebreaking with intent to commit robbery as well as Count Two - Aggravated Robbery. "Accused number one - Lumnkile Manene, was sentenced to four years imprisonment for Housebreaking with intent to commit robbery, and for aggravated robbery, 20 years imprisonment," said Capt Govender. "Accused number two - Zukile Vena, was sentenced to four years imprisonment for Housebreaking with intent to commit robbery and 15 years imprisonment for Aggravated Robbery. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 