 Port Elizabeth - Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, welcomed the sentencing of two gang affiliates, who were sentenced on Monday in the Port Elizabeth High Court for the murder of two-year-old Hakeem Baartman and the attempted murder of a 17-year-old boy.. "On 18 November 2017, at about 14:45, Hakeem Baartman was fatally injured while a 17-year-old boy sustained a gunshot wound in the neck in Helenvale," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The teenager was sitting on the steps of a house in Hartbees Street in Helenvale, Port Elizabeth, when Marshall Thomas (22) approached from an open field and started shooting at him. The victim ran into the street and Thomas continued firing at him. "Little Baartman, who was playing in the street was fatally struck by a stray bullet in the head. The shooting at the teenager was gang-related." She added that on Monday, 14 May 2018, the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit (Gang Investigation) arrested Thomas at a tavern in Voissen Road in Gelvandale. "Through further investigation, the second accused, Maxwell Muller (22), was arrested on 4 February 2019 while still in custody for another murder and attempted murder case." On 1 July 2019, both accused were convicted and on 21 October 2019 they were sentenced as follows: Marshall Thomas: Maxwell Muller: Col Naidu said that some of the sentences will run concurrent. "Effectively, both accused will serve an effective 25 years imprisonment." Lt Gen Ntshinga complimented the investigating team and the prosecuting authority by reiterating that, "It is our responsibility as law enforcers to protect the vulnerable in society and these responsibilities are taken seriously through thorough investigations, effective arrests and successful prosecutions. "This is the first POCA gang conviction and sentence achieved in Nelson Mandela Bay Metro which shows that sentences such as these show that justice has been served on these callous criminals who are now removed from society." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 