 Port Elizabeth - Comair, which operates British Airways in South Africa and low cost airline, kulula.com, on Tuesday assured customers it has contigency plans following the grounding of some aircraft. "Yesterday evening, the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) issued a notice related to irregular findings picked up during a recent audit of our maintenance and technical service provider, South African Airways Technical (SAAT)," the company said. "Affected aircraft may not be flown until the necessary corrective action has been carried out. "Comair has contingency plans in place and aim to minimise any disruption to its operations. We will keep our customers updated. Customers can check their latest flight status on the relevant websites – ba.com and kulula.com. The company said that customers with urgent enquiries can call 011 921 0222 for British Airways or 086 158 5852 for kulula or reach out via kulula’s social media platforms. "We do apologise to our customers for any inconvenience to their travel plans and appreciate their support. We are working closely with SAAT to rectify the findings and getting our flights back on schedule as soon as possible," Comair said. "Comair is committed to providing a safe, secure, reliable and quality airline service to its customers. The safety and security of our customers and personnel is our foremost priority and is never compromised. "We maintain an IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) accreditation, ensuring the implementation of global best practice in operational safety. The company is also audited by British Airways International, the Boeing Company as well as the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA)." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  