 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA), which remains leaderless following the surprise resignation of Mmusi Maimane from both leadership of the party and from the party on Wednesday and Thursday, is now expected to elect a new interim leadership in November. "The Democratic Alliance’s (DA) Federal Executive (FedEx) resolved to have a special Federal Council (FedCo) meeting to elect an Interim Federal Leader and Interim Federal Chairperson based on legal advice from the DA Federal Legal Commission (FLC)," said Helen Zille - Chairperson of the Federal Council. "The election will take place on Sunday, 17 November 2019, at Nkululeko House in Bruma, Johannesburg and will be overseen by the DA Presiding Officer of Federal Council Elections, Desiree Van Der Walt." Zille explained that the Federal Leader and Federal Chairperson positions became vacant on Wednesday following "the personal decision" of Mmusi Maimane and Athol Trollip to resign from their positions. "The Interim Leadership will hold their positions until Federal Congress is convened – which is provisionally set for April 2020. "The DA is a resilient party of rules, structures and procedures and looks forward to electing an Interim Leader through constitutionally sound processes," she said. "The past two weeks have been a difficult period for the Party, and we thank our members, supporters and staff for their continued commitment during this time. "The DA wishes to assure South Africans that where we govern, we will continue to showcase our unmatched record in delivering services, and where we are in opposition, we will be constructive but firm. "The DA remains committed to building One South Africa for All, underpinned by our values of Freedom, Fairness, Opportunity and Diversity." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 