 Qumbu - Two suspects are expected in court in Qumbu after they were arrested by police for illegal firearm possession over the weekend. "Two Operation Stabilisation Teams deployed at Qumbu received information about two suspects, who were alleged to be in possession of illegal firearms at Marambeni location, Qumbu, on Saturday," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "The assemble and deployment of Stabilisation Operation was a direct response by the Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Ntshinga to curb the rampant rise of armed robberies, stock theft and murder in Qumbu,Libode, Ngcobo, Mthatha, Tsolo and Maclear. "The team has up to date recovered and confiscated more than 100 illegal firearms and ammunition ever since April this year." Bri Kinana said that the two male suspects, aged between 28 -29 year old, were arrested for possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. During the operation, the following ammunition was recovered: "On further enquiry, it was discovered that the items were stolen and case of theft was opened," Brig Kinana said. "The two suspects are expected to appear at Qumbu Magistrate's Court facing a charge of possession of stolen property and illegal weapons soon. "The firearms will be taken to the lab to determine whether they have been used earlier in commission of crime." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen, Liziwe Ntshinga, commended the team for exellent execution of this operation. "We will continue our efforts to take illegal firearms from criminal hands, this success encourages us to continue. We are also thankful of the community support in our endeavors," she added. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 