 Port Elizabeth - The Eastern Cape, Limpopo and parts of Gauteng are facing dire water shortages due to high consumption and low rainfall. However, if every citizen plays their part to save water, the country will be able to avoid Day Zero, Water and Sanitation Minister, Lindiwe Sisulu, said on Monday. “Water users must do whatever is necessary to ensure that water is conserved. There will not be a need for water shedding if water consumers adhered to calls to save water,” she advised. Sisulu said the current has forced a number of municipalities to implement water restrictions. The Minister noted that climate change is a reality and that South Africa is one of the countries feeling the effects of the phenomenon. While acknowledging that the situation is very serious, Sisulu stressed that there’s no need to panic at this stage, provided that “all water users take collective action to save water”.  WATCH: Min says the earliest we can expect rain is December #watercrisis #WaterRestrictions pic.twitter.com/zIlzb59vHr “I’ve been informed by my advisors that the earliest we can expect rain is December… so we are in for a long dry season. Gauteng is not alone. There are other provinces like the Eastern Cape in particular and Limpopo, including large municipalities and numerous smaller towns that have water restrictions in place,” she said. “The reliable supply of water at an acceptable quantity and quality is essential for the future development in South Africa. Global water stress surveys place us as high on the list, as we are experiencing what we call water stress. We have to really begin to disaster-proof South Africa and South Africa’s security water." Meanwhile, the Department of Water and Sanitation is expected in November to unveil the National Water and Sanitation Masterplan, which will include measures to address water challenges across the country. The plan intends to guide the water sector in investment planning for the development of water resources and the delivery of water and sanitation services towards 2030 and beyond. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 