 East London - Mzimvubu Local Municipality is the 2019 provincial winner of the Eastern Cape Greenest Municipality Awards (GMC), walking away with a whopping R500 000 in the process. This was announced during the 2019 provincial Marine Day Celebrations and Greenest Municipality Awards that took place in Hamburg, Ngqushwa Local Municipality yesterday. The GMC forms part of the efforts by Eastern Cape Department of Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism to capacitate and warn communities about the importance of caring for the environment especially avoidance and reduction of pollution. The competition seeks to change attitudes by raising awareness and educating the public on good waste management practices, and to obtain community buy-in and encourage active participation by all stakeholders. Speaking during the event, the MEC for DEDEAT, the Honourable Mlungisi Mvoko reiterated that the GMC seeks to encourage the municipalities and communities to keep their towns clean. Mvoko congratulated the winners whilst recognising the participants, saying "you being here means you yourselves are winners as you have won in your respective districts to be eligible to compete at the provincial level". Overall, the winners and participants in the competition are the following municipalities:1. Mvimvubu LM – R500 0002. Kouga LM – R300 0003. Senqu LM – R200 0004. Emalahleni LM – Certificate of participation5. Port St Johns LM – Certificate of participation6. Mbashe LM - Certificate of participation Meanwhile, the Marine Day Celebrations are held during the National Marine Week, celebrated annually during the second week of October. The National Marine Week for 2019 is celebrated under the theme “My Ocean Future”, a theme aimed primarily at addressing issues of plastic pollution and ocean-related careers. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 