 Bhisho - Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, on Tuesday wished all the Grade 12s across the province the best of luck as they sit for the 2019 Matric exams. "As the Premier of the Eastern Cape Province, I wish all the grade 12 learners of the province that will be writing their final examinations the best of luck as they get ready to write their examinations," the Premier said. "All the learners that will be writing their final examinations received support from the National, Provincial departments of Education, parents, private sector and civil society organizations preparing them to be ready for these examinations. "As the provincial government we are confident that the work done by all the partners led by our Education MEC, Mr Fundile Gade, will ensure that all learners write their examinations without hindrances." Mabuyane said that the Eastern Cape Department of Education has made all necessary arrangements to ensure that the final examinations will be successful and incident free. "It is our hope as the provincial government that all our learners will pass their examinations with flying colors to propel them as they launch their careers into their future careers," the Premier said. "We call on the people of the province to support these learners as they get ready to write their final grade 12 examinations and during the process of writing examinations so that they pass. We hope there will be no incidents of cheating in the province during these examinations." In the 2018 Matric exam results released early this year, the Eastern Cape for the first time in so many years was not at the bottom of the class after registering a 70.6% matric pass rate, an improvement of 5.6% from 2017 – the largest improvement in the country. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 