 Bhisho - The Eastern Cape government could make at least R50 million available to drought hit farmers, through simple cuts in non-core expenditure for the Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape said on Friday. "This funding would be over and above any national funding that could be made available once the declaration of the province as a disaster area is gazetted, following the Premier’s announcement earlier this week," said Retief Odendaal (MPL), DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Rural Development and Agrarian Reform. "While R50 million a drop in the ocean in the face of the drought crisis our province is experiencing, it is substantially better than the paltry R3.2 million that has been made available by the Department for drought relief to date. "The Department is failing in one of its core mandates of providing support to the agricultural sector. In the last financial year, it underspent its budget by a whopping R80,595 million. Included in this underspend was R39,520 million that was budgeted for Farmer Support and Development!" Odendaal said that "we all know that this drought is currently the single biggest threat to the agricultural sector in the province and yet the Department is nowhere in assisting farming communities in this regard". He said that in the DA-led Western Cape, provincial funding of R147 million has been made available to assist farmers in their province deal with the drought. "Simple cuts in non-core expenditure items in the 2019/20 budget would free in excess of R50 million, which could be redirected to farmers in need." He said that these cuts include: "This brings the potential total savings to R50,109 million, which could then be redirected to assisting farmers who have been battling to deal with what has been described as the drought of the century. "I have written to the Chairperson of the Committee, the Hon Fundisile Bese, MPL, to liaise with the Speaker, in order to call a special meeting of the Rural Development and Agrarian Reform Committee, that the current situation regarding the drought and the proposed budget adjustments can be discussed," said Odendaal. "It is clear that the officials in the Department are hopelessly out of touch in appreciating the severity of the drought situation in the province and this is simply unacceptable. Drastic action needs to be taken to ensure the long-term food security for the province and the economic viability of one of the largest job creating sectors in the Eastern Cape." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 