 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Nelson Mandela Bay on Wednesday gave the Speaker of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipal Council, Buyelwa Mafaya, 24 hours to reschedule a special council meeting that was postponed on the 17th of October. "On the agenda was a motion of no confidence in NMB Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, who has proven to be the most destructive force in the history of this City," said Rano Kayser Cllr - DA NMB Deputy Caucus Leader. "The DA’s legal representatives have written to the Speaker and informed her that she has 24 hours, till 14:00 on Thursday, 31 October 2019, to reschedule the special council meeting for no later than 6 November 2019. "If Speaker Mafaya fails to do so, the DA will approach a court of law to seek a directory interdict to order her to reconvene an urgent meeting. She must also provide the necessary security for this meeting to proceed." Kayser added that the Speaker "unlawfully" postponed a special council meeting and an ordinary council meeting on 17 October. "This decision was apparently made after advice was received from the South African Police Service (SAPS) regarding a safety threat to all councillors," he said. "This was proven to be untrue after SAPS released a statement refuting that the meeting was called off after being advised to do so by the police. "The police also confirmed that they were in a state of readiness to maintain law and order at the council chambers." Kayser said that the cancellation of the council meetings on 17 October preceded by a 6 week recess period "and the fact that we haven’t had a council meeting for months has all but rendered this City ungoverned and the current government unaccountable to the citizens of the City". "A motion of no confidence in a mayor is inherently an urgent matter and the DA will no longer allow the Speaker to stand in the way of bringing the curtain down on Mayor Bobani’s reign of terror." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 