 Mthatha - 26 suspects were put behind bars for different crimes by the OR Tambo members this weekend during operation Economic Stimulus that was conducted around the district. "Kwaaiman police with the assistance of the community have arrested two men, aged 20 and 23 years, for attempted murder and attempted robbery following a shooting and injuring of a 29-year-old foreign national during an armed robbery at his shop at Lower Bufumba A/A Elliotdale on Friday, at about 14h30," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "It is alleged that three suspects one armed with a pistol entered the shop where they demanded money at gunpoint and before fleeing the scene, they shot and injured the shop owner. "The community alerted police and together they made chase and cornered them at Kweleni Forest. "One suspect, 22 years old, was assaulted by the community and was taken to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries." Capt Tonjeni said that in another incident, two men, aged 18 and 20 years, were arrested by Kwaaiman police and the community following a robbery that occured at a local shop at Putuma locality Talimofu À/A in Elliotdale on Saturday, at about 08h30. "It is alleged that three suspects one armed with a pistol demanded money from a 37-year-old foreign national, who fled before handing it over to them. He made alarm to the community, who summoned police," he described. "After an intensive search, the pair was arrested at the locality and a 9mm Norinco pistol with no rounds was confiscated. "One suspect managed to escape the arrest." Meanwhile, Ngqeleni Vispol members have closed four illegal shebeens at Lujecweni, Corhana and Mabetshe localities on Friday evening where four suspects with ages between 20 and 54 were arrested and litres of alcohol were confiscated. "Ngqeleni Vispol have also arrested a 62-year-old man after he was found in possession of a shotgun with two shells at Ntibane locality on Friday at about 23h00." Capt Tonjeni also said that Ngqeleni detectives made a swift arrest of three men, aged between 23 and 24 years, following the murder of a 30-year-old man, who was found dead with open wounds on his upper body at Mchonco locality Ndanya A/A yesterday at about 08h30. "The motive for his killing is yet to be established." Meanwhile, a 24-year-old man was arrested by Coffee Bay police for allegedly raping his 26-year-old cousin sister at Rhini locality on Sunday, at about 00h30. "It is alleged that the victim was on her way home accompanied by the suspect, who on the way forced himself on the victim and raped her," Capt Tonjeni said. "The suspect was arrested on Sunday at about 15h00." He added that during the operation that was conducted around Coffee Bay, police recovered an abandoned white Toyota Quantum at Kham locality on Friday, at about 12h30. "The Quantum which was stolen from Mthatha this month was found stripped off and its parts were also recovered. Noone has been arrested as yet." Meanwhile, Mtontsasa police arrested a 52-year-old man for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl at Kwenzela locality on Friday, at about 23h00. "It is alleged that the victim was grabbed by the suspect, who raped her in a toilet at her home. He was arrested by the community and was later handed to police." Capt Tonjeni said that Lusikisiki Pop members arrested a 22-year-old man after he was found in possession of a shotgun with no shells during an intelligence-driven operation at Mandlobe locality Qhasa A/A on Friday, at about 23h45. "They proceeded to another homestead where they seized 46 small plastic bags of dagga. The suspect escaped arrest." On the other hand, Mthatha Pop members arrested a 35-year-old man after he was found in possession of a 7.65 9mm pistol with 5 rounds at Gxulu locality in Libode on Saturday, at about 00h45. "In another incident, a 21-year-old taxi driver was arrested for murder following the stabbing and killing of another 24-year-old man at Vigdiesville on Saturday, at about 16h00," said Capt Tonjeni. "It is alleged that the suspect was ferrying people from Mthatha to Mqanduli when an argument ensued and it is further alleged that the driver stopped the taxi an both went outside to fight." Mthatha Vispol members also arrested a 41-year-old woman after she was found in possession of dagga weighing 11.28 kg at Decolign on the R61 on Sunday, at about 12h45. "Members were following an information about a motor vehicle that was from town conveying dagga to Ngcobo," said Capt Tonjeni. "They also arrested a 50-year-old woman for selling liqour without license at Mpheko locality at about 15h55. Litres of alcohol were confiscated." Lastly, Bityi Detectives arrested three learners following the stabbing and killing of another 17-year-old learner during a matric dance at Mpa locality in Bityi on Thursday, at about 23h54. "It is alleged that the victim and the suspects were at the dance when an argument broke out. Three learners, with their ages ranging between 15 to 20 years, were arrested for murder on Saturday, at about 10h00. "All suspects will appear before their respective courts on Monday." Addressing police officers ahead of the operation, on Friday, the District SAPS Commissioner, Major General Mhlangenqaba Kanuka, said " Let's paint this District blue and make our disgruntled citizens happy. Our presence should be felt by those that continuously break the law. "Let's go out there and bring back our dignity. We request and will appreciate if the communities can work hand in hand with us however we condemn and discourage those that takes the law into their own hands." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  