 Port Elizabeth - Four males were shot and killed in three separate incidents in the Motherwell Cluster area of Port Elizabeth since Thursday. "In the first incident, at about 11:30, a white Aveo was seen stopping in Gqwaru Street, NU5, Motherwell," said police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "Three men got out of the vehicle after which one of the men were shot at close range by the other two. "The wounded male attempted to flee from the other two by jumping over fences, but was again shot by his attackers. He died on the scene and remains unidentified by the time of this release." The two unknown attackers then fled the scene in the vehicle. Captain Beetge said that in a second unrelated incident, 35-year-old Mzoli Ntlanti was shot and killed in Daku Road, Kwazakele, Port Elizabeth, at about 19:40. "It is unknown who shot and killed him and the motive remains unclear. He was transported to Dora Nginza Hospital by ambulance but passed away before reaching the hospital." In the third unrelated incident, a double murder took place in Nhose Street, Zwide, Port Elizabeth, at about 20:30. "The 41-year-old Anele Dayimani and 50-year-old Vusi Mini were shot and killed by unknown attackers while they were sitting in a parked white Opel Corsa close to the house of Anele's brother." After hearing the shots being fired, Anele's brother found them in the vehicle and notified police. "In all three incidents the motive remains unclear but police are suspecting that the murders were targeted killings," Captain Beetge. "Any person with information that can assist police with these investigations, can contact the Eastern Cape Provincial Organised Crime Investigation team, Lt Colonel Willie Mayi at 082 697 5914 or 08600 10111." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 