 Port Elizabeth - Ahead of a media briefing by Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, Mmusi Maimane, on Wednesday afternoon, speculation is rife that Maimane has decided to resign as leader of the DA. Maimane will address members of the media at 15:00 at Nkululeko House, 21 Ernest Oppenheimer Avenue, Bruma, Johannesburg. The media address had initially been scheduled for lunch time but has since been moved. If true, this will come just after the resignation of Herman Mashaba as Mayor of Johannesburg. According to experts, all is not well in the country's main opposition party - most evident after the election of former party leader, Helen Zille, to the party's most powerful Federal Council Chairperson position over the weekend. Maimane has apparently been under pressure to resign following the DA's poor showing in the May elections, which saw it lose support. Several media outlets - quoting insiders in the DA, have reported that there is a high probability of Maimane announcing his resignation. Maimane was present at Mashaba’s announcement that he had resigned and raised eyebrows when he labelled Mashsba his hero - just moments after the businessman slammed the DA. Meanwhile, social media has been ablaze with the news and speculation of Maimane's possible resignation.  ?@MmusiMaimane? halala ???????????????????????? #mmusimaimane pic.twitter.com/aN05EdSCzm  AS #MmusiMaimane is expected to brief the media at 13:00. I'll leave it here......... pic.twitter.com/14jNkz4H0Z  And wena #MmusiMaimane don't even think of starting your own party bcoz we won't vote for you pic.twitter.com/tswrWQUFDL  #MmusiMaimane Guess who’s having the last laugh... Hehehehe. pic.twitter.com/P0CbC3YXtx  I am writing an open letter to all politicians that we have enough political parties no more new ones, all we want are jobs, services not fighting amongst you guys. Any new party will have no voters #MmusiMaimane #HermanMashaba #MYANC pic.twitter.com/NZZgJOqUpZ  I’m really happy Mmusi is going to resign from the DA. Helen Zille and the IRR have bullied this man and didn’t give him a chance to lead. I really wish him luck in his future endeavors, he is one of the most unproblematic politicians. #MmusiMaimane More to follow... Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  