 Bhisho - After receiving news that Eskom is implementing stage 2 of load shedding from today, the Eastern Cape provincial government on Wednesday said that is implementing programs to provide services to the people of the province to ensure continued provision of services during load shedding. "Municipalities will be rotating power supply during this period to communities within their jurisdictions. Government will then ensure that in places where there is no power supply, personnel will be available to assist people to continue accessing government services where it is possible," said Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane. "These are services like provision of health care, traffic and transport management services." The Premier said that in relation to the provision of health services during load shedding, the Eastern Cape Department of Health has made provision for backup generators in all the 66 district hospitals in the province. "These backup generators will kick in when power supply is interrupted in the areas with hospitals," he described. "The back up generators, which are checked on a daily basis to ensure they have adequate diesel during load shedding. "Reports about the use of these back of generators to keep hospitals providing healthcare to the people of the province will be generated and sent to Head Office in Bisho on a daily basis during the load shedding process. "We want to inform the people of the province, especially those with patients in our hospitals that generators cover essential areas in hospitals like wards, theaters, ICUs, paediatrics, maternity and forensic pathology." Mabuyane said that during load shedding, traffic lights/robots will not work normally. "In this regard, the provincial government is working with both provincial and municipal traffic services to manage traffic flow in towns and other traffic services to motorists," the Premier described. "Traffic officers have been deployed to some of our major centres like the East London  Central Business District  and some hotspots in King Williams Town to control traffic in major intersections, with the help of BCM and our provincial traffic police. "In our licensing centres, we are pleading for patience from our motorists until power is restored, as a number of our stations do not have backup systems for power outages." "During this period, entities responsible for the provision of water services have made arrangements with Eskom to receive alerts about the planned outages in order to schedule pumping of water in the reservoirs during times where there is confirmed power supply in the areas were the facilities are located," Premier Mabuyane described. "Some of these entities will work more from 23:00 after the rotation of power supply to ensure continued provision of safe, clean drinkable water to households, businesses and public facilities." The Premier said that the existing arrangements with Eskom and municipalities is that strategic economic centers like the Harbors, ports, Special Economic Zones and manufacturing plants or factories will be exempted from load shedding. "This is done to ensure continued economic production in these facilities so that the economy is not halted by the disruption of power supply. This arrangement will continue in all the strategic economic centers and facilities in our province." "Our agency, the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency issued an advisory to all tourism providers in the province like hotels, guest houses, BnBs, restaurants, pubs, museums, tourism information centers and other heritage centers to tap into their contingency plans so as to be able to serve tourists during this load shedding time," the Premier said. "Government understands the challenges loads heading brings to the tourism sector and we are particularly concerned for establishments like restaurants and small operators who will feel the impact as costs are likely to increase." The Premier said that the province is ready to bring forth new sources of sustainable energy and requisite infrastructure for energy. "We are waiting for the completion of the integrated resource plan from national government. This will help to reduce our reliance on the grid managed by Eskom and ensure continued provision of power supply." Premier Mabuyane provided the following tips to the consumers to use during the load shedding period: "Government would like to inform the people of the province that during the load shedding period, there will be moments where provision of some of government services will be interrupted temporarily," he said. "We hope that Eskom will be able to sort its maintenance issues that led to load shedding with haste. "The provincial government is appealing to the people of the province in their homes and their places of work to assist Eskom by ensuring security of energy supply through utilising electricity sparingly throughout the day." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 