 East London - The Eastern Cape Provincial Commercial Crimes Unit was hailed by the Provincial Management for their swift action after they were alerted to a suspected diamond scam and extortion racket that was happening in broad daylight in East London on Wednesday. "Preliminary investigation indicates that the four Namibian suspects, aged between 35 and 45, took advantage of an unsuspecting person, who was selling his car on Gumtree," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "They called him to East London where they manufactured a false promise to exchange cash of about million dollars for R5 000 cash. "The suspects are further alleged to have showed him stones wrapped in a brown paper, which they identified as diamonds." He said that after realizing that the deal was no longer about the car on sale, the would-be victim, who cannot be identified for security reasons, pretended to be going to organise the required amount of money. "He then alerted the police, who immediately tracked the suspects and arrested them," Brig Kinana said. "An amount of old Zimbabwean dollars, R600, stones and cellphones were recovered. "The suspects were driving in a Silver Grey Runx, which was also confiscated for further investigations." Brig Kinana said that the suspect are expected to appear before the East London Magistrate's Court once they are charged on fraud, extortion and Precious Stones Act. "They remain in police custody until their court appearance on Friday." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, has hailed the sterling work of the Commercial Crimes Unit as “a remarkable breakthrough” in breaking the back of the criminal gangs who are determined to rip off the innocent communities of their monies". General Ntshinga vowed to dismantle any form of existing syndicate that may be founding its habitation within the community of East London and elsewhere. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 