 Bhisho - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday welcomed the announcement by Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane that the Eastern Cape is now a gazetted drought disaster area. "The DA has been calling on the Premier to declare the province a disaster area for months, as this will allow the national government to make much needed drought relief funding available to the province," said Retief Odendaal (MPL), DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Rural Development and Agrarian Reform. "There is no doubt that the Eastern Cape is currently experiencing one of the most disastrous and debilitating droughts in its history, with over four years of way-below-average rainfall. "This period has been characterized as a once-in-a-hundred-year drought and has placed many farmers in financial ruin. "Drought relief needs to be made available immediately." Odendaal said that the DA has already called for a special sitting of the portfolio committee on Rural Development and Agrarian Reform, to review the Department’s budget and reallocate funding for drought aid. "A notice of motion was also tabled by the DA last week during Taking Legislature to the People, calling for the budgetary review," he added. "We will now redouble our efforts to free up in excess of R50 million in non-core expenditure that has been identified in the Department’s budget, which could immediately be redirected to assist farmers in need. "This R50 million a drop in the ocean in the face of the drought crisis our province is experiencing, it is substantially better than the paltry R3.2 million that has been made available by the Department for drought relief to date." Odendaal said that the DA will also actively engage with the Premier to secure drought relief funding for the province from the national government. "The province cannot continue to delay acting while livestock are dying, and municipalities are running out of water," he described. "We need immediate action to save our rural economy and the DA will continue to fight for the survival of our farming community." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 