 Port Elizabeth - Power utility Eskom will again on Friday implement load shedding - but this time Stage 1 load shedding between 9am and 11pm. The utility re-introduced load shedding on Wednesday morning citing a shortage of generating capacity. #POWERALERT 2Date: 17 October 2019Eskom stops loadshedding for today, however Stage 1 rotational loadshedding will continue tomorrow @News24 @ewnupdates @SAgovnews @SABCNewsOnline @IOL @eNCA @SowetanLIVE @TimesLIVE @BDliveSA @BusinessLiveSA @TheCitizen_News @Radio702 pic.twitter.com/rgvLE8UjZN Customers are advised to keep checking their load shedding schedules on the Eskom website or municipal websites to determine when they are due to get loadshedding. For Eskom customers, these schedules are available on the Eskom website (loadshedding.eskom.co.za). "Eskom customers can also contact our Customer Contact Centre at 0860 037 566," the utility said. Also read How to be safe on the roads during Eskom load shedding Stage 1 rotational loadshedding requires 1000MW to be loadshed nation-wide. Loadshedding is conducted as a measure of last resort to protect the power system from a total collapse or blackout. "We encourage residents and businesses to please use electricity sparingly to ease the demand of electricity. Please switch off geysers as well as all non-essential lighting and electricity appliances to assist in reducing demand." Residents and businesses are also urged to treat all connections as live. Eskom will provide regular updates on the status of the power system through all the media platforms. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 