 Port Elizabeth - Eskom, after not implementing load shedding on Sunday, announced that it also does not expect to implement load shedding on Monday and for the rest of this week.  #PowerAlert 2Date: 20 October 2019No loadshedding is expected on Monday, 21 October 2019, and the probability of loadshedding is low for the week@IOL@ewnreporter @News24 @TimesLIVE @SowetanLIVE @POWER987News @SAfmnews @TrafficSA pic.twitter.com/mmYswKEj8y Eskom said that additional generating units were expected to return to service on Sunday and repairs are progressing well on the conveyor belt at Medupi power station. "In addition, Eskom has had an opportunity to replenish diesel reserves for the open cycle gas turbines and to increase water levels at its pumped storage schemes in preparation for the week ahead. These reserves enable us to avoid and/or minimise the extent of loadshedding," the power utility said. "Eskom will be in a better position to provide a prognosis for Monday and the coming week, after reviewing the performance of the electricity system on Sunday evening. "The power system is constrained and while we are making every effort to avoid loadshedding, it could be implemented at short notice should there be a significant shift in plant performance and increased unplanned technical breakdowns." Eskom said that it will continue to keep South Africans informed about the status of the electricity system and its recovery efforts. "As we are experiencing a heat wave in some parts of the country, we ask that you use your air conditioners efficiently at 23ºC," it added. "Eskom would like to thank customers for their support in reducing demand by using electricity sparingly and industrial customers for their participation in load curtailment, when necessary. "In addition we extend our gratitude to Eskom employees for their hard work and dedication over this difficult period and for sacrificing valuable time with their families." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 