 King Williams Town - Twenty newly promoted Eastern Cape SAPS Colonels were conferred with new rank insignia and were heralded to the Middle Management Service (MMS) level of SAPS leadership in the Eastern Cape. The confering was hels at Griffiths Mxenge Provincial SAPS headquarters on Thursday. According to police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni, eight of the newly appointed Colonels will be working as station Commanders in police stations within our province as follows. 1. Col. Mbulelo Pika- Grahamstown2. Col. Nomsa Mtshagi- Joza3. Col. Fundiswa Mhlamanzanana Mount Frere4. Col Pakamile Gwayi- Ntabankulu5. Col Patrick Goeda- KwaNobuhle6. Col Bekekile Waka- Mqanduli7. Col Sindiswa Tsolo- Mt Ayliff8. Col Thaynne Petzer- Madeira:Mthatha He said that three Detective Units namely KwaZakhele, Uitenhage and Mthatha also got new Commanders as follows: 1. Col Wele Nani- Mthatha Detectives2. Col Anthea Hector- KwaZakhele Detectives3. Col Tabita Peter- Uitenhage Detectives Captain Tonjeni also said that to make an impact on the frontlines of fighting and combating crime, three Vispol Units Commanders were appointed as follows:- 1. Col Lester Brass- Mt Road Vispol 2. Col Andreas Kwinana- Lusikisiki Vispol3. Col Anne-Marie Frank- Humewood Vispol The Provincial Office was also augmented with the following Commanders-: 1.Col Ntabezwe Dukada- Provincial Finance Accounting2.Col. Makaya Marwanqa- Operational Command Centre-Warroom Commander3.Col. Garth James- Provincial Legal Operational Support4.Col Mthozamo Slara- Provincial Detectives Compliance and Monitoring5.Col. Andreki Middleton- Provincial Detectives- Compliance and Monitoring6.Col Mluleki Dyasi- Provincial Fraud and Statutes Unit Col Thobeka Khayingana was appointed as a Provincial Commander- Infrastructure TMS Capt Tonjeni said that the Eastern Cape also lost one official who was appointed in another province as follows:-Col Nombuso Hlengane- Section head Organisational Development and Strategic in the Free State province. "Representing the senior management and office of Provincial Commissioner, Deputy Provincial Commissioner(DPC): Asset Management-Maj Gen Thembeka Dyantyi, DPC-Human Resources Management: Maj Gen Daphney Kunene accompanied by Provincial Head:Crime Prevention:Brig Wilberforce Ntsabo conferred the new ranks and congratulated the members." Brigadier Ntsabo encouraged and congratulated the new appointees for changing their 'disappointments to appointments. He pleaded to the new commanders to implement the code of conduct, ethics and Provincial Commissioner 's RRR vision in their new line of duty. He encouraged further those leaving other stations to become station Commanders elsewhere, to respect ordinary rank and file police members. "The members on the ground are the ones who made you to be where you are." He further reminded them about Operation Gijima, a rolling operation for station Commanders in the fight against crime they will have to join and support. Major Gen Dyantyi imparting some words of wisdom said to the members, "The baton is in your hands now. Don't dissapoint your Provincial Commissioner and Premier." Major General Kunene who was in charge of the recruitment and selection process of the members said it was a long journey with many applications. Turning to the newly inaugurated,"You need to thank God by doing justice to the community of Eastern Cape, our people deserve better. "She further urged the members to develop their subordinates first. Take them out of darkness so that tomorrow you can work smarter," she advised. Col Petzer who responded on behalf of all newly appointed Commanders said when they joined the police 'it was not a job but a career and commitment to serve.' "We pledge our commitment today as recipients of the new ranks to commit and dedicate ourselves to our duty more,"said Col Petzer, the new Madeira-Mthatha station Commander. He also thanked his old and new boss, Brigadier Ntsabo for guidance and inspiration saying, "As you will continue to support us, we will continue to do our best." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 