 Mthatha - A 36-year-old man, Siyanda Sezardino Diko, from Mthatha made a brief appearance at the Mthatha Magistrate's Court on Tuesday facing a charge of life insurance fraud. "He was given bail of R10 000 with strict conditions that include that the accused must not come near Mbuqe Park cemetery as police are still busy with the process/application of exhumation of the body that he buried 'as his deceased brother," described police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "The case was postponed for further investigation while the next court date was set for the 20th of December 2019." Capt Tonjeni said that the suspect was arrested by the Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commercial Crime Unit on Wednesday last week after a case of fraud was opened on the 22nd of August 2018. "It is alleged that around April 2018, Siyanda Sezardino Diko applied for life policy of an amount of R2.5 million at Liberty Life through Standard Bank and put himself as a sole beneficiary," he said. "The accused committed a case of fraud by making a false claim at Standard Bank on June 2018. "Through this false claim, he pocketed a sum of R2.5million from Liberty Life cover policy by claiming that Siyanda Diko, his brother has passed on. Siyanda Sezardino Diko was the the beneficiary in that policy." Capt Tonjeni said that a preliminary investigation revealed that Siyanda Sezardino Diko and 'Siyanda Diko' is the same person. "Accused submitted false documents such as death certificate and post mortem at Doves funeral palour in Mthatha and an unknown male was buried at Mbuqe Park cemetery at Umtata." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 