 Bhisho - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape says drastic action needs to be taken if we are to address the ongoing carnage on the Eastern Cape roads that is claiming the lives of thousands of loved ones across the province. "Lastweek, as we entered Transport Month, at least eight people have died and twenty-two have been seriously injured," said Marshall von Buchenroder (MPL), DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Transport. "The Democratic Alliance would like to extend our sincere condolences to the families of those who have been tragically killed in these road accidents. "This tragic loss of life is unacceptable, and clearly shows that more needs to be done to ensure the safety of road users." Von Buchenroder added that high visibility and tough law enforcement all year-round, not just seasonal plans, can curb the high road death toll in the Eastern Cape. "MEC Weziwe Tikana must use this month to advance our province’s road safety initiatives," he said. "This needs to go beyond simple road safety awareness campaigns, there needs to be active law enforcement. It is no good passing new laws, such as the new AARTO Act, if they are not actively enforced and those who transgress are held to account." Von Buchenroder added that the following steps can be taken by the Department, which will have a direct impact on improving traffic policing in the province: "We need to take back our Province’s roads from lawless individuals, who place their lives, and the lives of others, at risk through their negligent behaviour. I urge Eastern Cape road users to be vigilant on our roads at all times. Be aware and help save lives." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 