 East London - The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape won all three Ward by-elections held in the  province on Wednesday. The by-elections were contested by six candidates from four political parties: the ANC, the African Independent Congress (AIC), the Democratic Alliance (DA); and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). The new ANC councillors are: The ANC was yet to cmment on the results at the time of publishing. Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance said that it has seen significant growth in support in the Enoch Mgijima Local Municipality. "The Democratic Alliance (DA) yesterday highlighted that it is a party for all South Africans by showing huge growth in the Enoch Mgijima Municipality Ward 34 (Hofmeyr) by-election," said DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga. "The DA’s candidate, Mawethu Bango, put up a valiant fight and the party grew its support from 33,08% in the 2019 National and Provincial Elections to 47,71% in this by-election. "We are delighted with the result in this ANC ward and it is a testament that the people of the province have had enough of the uncaring, ineffective and corrupt ANC style of governance. "This result indicates that the DA is growing in rural Eastern Cape and underlines the fact that the people of the province are placing their trust in the DA.  "Our growth in this ward and the ANC's significant drop in support, from 62,07% in 2019 to 52,28%, highlights that the people are embracing the DA’s agenda for change and realise that only the DA can change their lives for the better." Bhanga still said that it is time for clean governance in Enoch Mgijima that provides basic services to all residents. "This result proves that the ANC’s days are numbered in the Enoch Mgijima Municipality," he added. "I thank each and every person who came out yesterday to endorse the change that the DA is bringing to the Eastern Cape." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 