 Port Elizabeth - The Provincial Organized Crime Investigation Unit (Prov OCI) in Port Elizabeth is seeking assistance from the community for information leading to arrest of suspects and/or the recovery of 55 bales of mohair. "On Wednesday, at approximately 23:00, a truck was transporting mohair from Queenstown towards Port Elizabeth for delivery," said police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse van Rensburg. "At about the mentioned time, the driver (39) stopped at a robot after exiting the freeway in Uitenhage Road. "A white VW polo swerved infront of the truck and two suspects armed with firearms pointed it at the driver, who was alone in the vehicle. "They forced the driver out of the truck and into the VW Polo." She said that the two suspects got into the truck and drove off. "The driver of the truck was blind-folded and the suspects drove around with the complainant and at approximately 02:00 on Thursday 17/10, they dropped the complainant in the Kwazakele area." Capt Janse van Rensburg said that after reporting the incident, the truck was circulated via police channels and at approximately 03:20, the PE K9 unit recovered the abandoned truck in Zono Street, Zwide. "The bales of mohair were taken from the truck and their estimated value is between R1.2 - R2 million," she added. "No one was injured during the hijacking. This is the second incident where a truck was hijacked with mohair. "The previous incident was reported on the 19th of September 2019 on the R75 in the Despatch area. "It is alleged that the driver and his passenger were forced to stop after an Audi with a blue light pulled them over. They forced the driver and his passenger out of the truck and drove off. The truck was later recovered in Graaff Reinett." The Eastern Cape Provincial Organized Crime Investigation Unit is requesting anyone who may have information regarding these hijackings to contact Lt Col Willie Mayi on 0826975914. "All information will be treated with confidentiality." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 