 Mthatha - Four suspects were arrested by Madeira Vispol members after two business robberies were reported at two different shops in the Mthatha CBD on Monday, at about 17h00. "It is alleged that in both shops five suspects with two pistols demanded money from cashiers at gunpoint and fled with an undisclosed amount of money," said police spokesperson, Captain Dineo Koena. "Vispol members cornered them at Sprigg Street but the fifth suspect managed to escape the arrest with the pistols and some of the cash robbed. "A sum of R2 300 was found in their possession." Meanwhile, two men, aged 22 and 34 years, were arrested by Mthatha National Intervention Unit and Madeira Vispol members following a business robbery that was reported to be in progress at a certain shop situated at a local mall in Mthatha on Monday, at about 17h00. "It is alleged that four suspects armed with pistols demanded money at gunpoint and took an undisclosed amount of money from the shop's cash office but their efforts failed when they were caught in action whilst still loading money and groceries in a basket bin," Capt Koena said. "Two other suspects escaped the arrest. Two 9mm Norinco Star pistols each with five rounds of ammunition and an undisclosed amount of money were confiscated." All the suspects would be profiled and linked to other crimes and will appear before Mthatha Magistrate's Court on Tuesday facing charges of business robbery, possession of unlicensed firearms and unlawful possession of ammunition. "I applaud you for your bravery in foiling these armed robberies. We must not give space to suspects," said Mthatha SAPS Commander, Brigadier Mandlakhe Twala, when commending the members. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 