 Port Elizabeth - Immediately responding to a tip-off about alleged drug peddlers resulted in the successful arrest of two suspects and the confiscation of mandrax tablets by Port Elizabeth police. "It is alleged that on Wednesday, at about 15:00, members of PE Flying Squad followed up information of possible drug dealing  in Korsten," described police spokesperson, Capt Johan Rheeder. "The members spotted the two suspected vehicles in Durban Road - a White Chevrolet bakkie and a Blue Audi A3. "The members managed to block in the vehicles, however one vehicle - the Audi A3 managed to speed away. "Police chased after the vehicle while it was recklessly driving in and out of traffic. The vehicle was eventually stopped in the parking area of the hospital in Durban Road." Capt Rheeder said that the driver of the bakkie (aged 62) was apprehended for dealing in drugs. "An amount of 100 mandrax tablets was found in his  possession. The driver of the Audi A3 (aged 38)  was found in possession of 950 mandrax tablets. Two cellphones, the Audi A3 and cash was also confiscated by police." He said that the 62-year-old was detained on a charged of dealing and possession of drugs while the 38-year-old was detained on a charge of attempted murder alternatively reckless and/or negligent driving, dealing and possession of drugs. "The estimated street value of the drugs is R47 500." Mount Road SAPS Cluster Commander, Major  General Thembisile Patekile, has warned drug traffickers that the SAPS "will continue in our endeavours to cripple the drug trade that is destroying the lives of innocent people. "We will continue to intensify our efforts with the aim of  uprooting and apprehending those responsible for drug peddling  within the community. Drug abuse is the main cause leading to social degeneration of our youth." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 