 Chintsa - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape welcomes the findings and recommendations of the Eastern Cape Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA) forensic report into the administration of the Great Kei Local Municipality (GKLM). The CoGTA reporthighlighted irregular and fraudulent activities with regards to the following incomplete projects: "The Municipality received R20-million for these projects through CoGTA’s Municipal Infrastructure Grant (MIG) programme. The Municipality, however, did not spend its MIG allocations and these projects remain unfinished," said Chantel King MP - DA Phesheya Kwenciba Constituency Leader. "The report also highlighted irregularities with regards to a Mayoral Golf Day in 2017. "The findings and recommendations of this report were presented to the Municipality on 29 August 2019." King said that the suggested action to be taken against Mr Lucky Mosalala, former Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and former Municipal Manager (MM), Ms Ivy Sikhulu-Ngwena, who now works for the Amathole District Municipality, clearly indicates the damage done to municipalities when ANC cadre deployees are placed in management positions. "The DA demands that the current MM, Mr Lawrence Mambila, decisively and swiftly acts on the recommendations of disciplinary and criminal actions to be taken, as indicated in the forensic report," she said. "We therefore give Mr Mambila 14 days to present actions to be taken against the individuals and companies implicated. Failure to do so will leave the DA with no choice but to request the Public Protector to intervene. "The recovery of all monies due to the financially distressed Great Kei Local Municipality is imperative to ensure some relief is given in order for the Municipality to meet it operating expenses. "Communities of the GKLM have been denied the opportunity to enjoy the facilities which they asked for during their Integrated Development Planning (IDP) engagements with the Municipality. The Municipality will fail these communities if it does not act on the report. "We will ensure consequence management is enforced and that there is accountability for fraudulent activity." King added that the DA has always been outspoken on cadre deployment in ANC municipalities, "which has led to municipalities under ANC rule failing the very communities who voted them into government". Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 