 Butterworth - Seven suspects are expected in court on Monday after they were arrested by police while breaking into a post office in Ngqamakwe, Butterworth. "In a determined effort to eradicate Post Office robberies in the province, an integrated force of Police units led by Crime Intelligence arrested seven suspects early on Friday morning, at about 3:00, at the Post Office in Ngqamakwe, Butterworth, " said police spokesperson, Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. "The arrests followed after Crime Intelligence received information about a possible robbery in the Post Office. As they followed up and upon observation, they discovered that a number of suspects were involved and were already busy breaking into the Post Office. "On realizing that they were being followed by the police, the suspects, attempted to escape but were subsequently arrested, ie five Zimbabweans and two African males. "During the incident, police seized one firearm - a 9mm pistol, and ammunition, two Industrial grinders, two iron crowbars and two vehicles." Brig Kinana said that according to the reports, the vehicles were going to be used as getaway cars. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, appreciated and described the work of the intelligence and other units as the manifestation of a sustained determination by the SAPS to destroy the criminal network in the Province. "The suspects aged between 30 and 45 are expected to appear before Ngqamakwe Magistrate's Court on Monday on charges relating to the possession of an unlicensed fire-arm and ammunition, burglary at a business premises and possession of housebreaking implements." General Ntshinga expressed gratitude at the amount of cooperation and support received from the patriotic members of the community who have joined hands with the police against criminality within the communities. The investigation continues. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 