 Komani - Scores of Komani hawkers, taxi operators and commuters are expected to benefit from the new multi-million rand state of the art Taxi rank to be opened by the Eastern Cape Premier, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane together with Transport, Safety and Liaison MEC, Weziwe Tikana Gxothiwe, in Komani on Friday afternoon. "The provincial Department of Transport injected R8.9 Million into the construction of this brand new taxi rank in pursuit of goal 2 of the Provincial Development Plan, aimed to develop enabling infrastructure network that promotes economic activity," said the Premier’s Spokesperson, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha. "The new taxi rank will provide a one stop shop public transport facility to the scores of local commuters, business opportunities to local hawkers and an emergency vehicle repairs center for local mechanics servicing taxis using the rank. "The rank is the anchor of the Inter-Modal project started as an initiative to deal with the vast numbers of commuters passing through Komani with no formal transport facility in the city center at which commuters and various modes of transport could converge." Sicwetsha added that local hawkers operating in and around the public transport sector who lacked proper facilities for their trading will now enjoy a facility that shelters them from bad weather while bringing their trade closer to customers. "The rank, which will be used by 10 local taxi associations has public toilet facilities, trading facilities for hawkers, mechanic workshop to service minibus taxis, offices for the taxi associations, a waiting area with covering shelter for commuters waiting to catch a ride to their destinations," he said. "With Komani’s economic boom featuring construction of new malls, including the Lukhanji Mall that is a stone throw away from the rank, the new taxi rank will accommodate long-distance, medium-distance, local Taxis and Busses transporting locals to towns in and around Komani." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 