 Port Elizabeth - A man is expected in court in Port Elizabeth after he was arrested by the Port Elizabeth K9 Unit and the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Surveillance Unit for alleged copper cable theft from street lighting on the N2 freeway opposite the Baywest Mall. "The theft of copper cables is a continuous problem in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro and it has serious implications on our electricity and telecommunication infrastructure," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Surveillance Unit and the SAPS work closely together in attempting to curb this problem. "On Thursday, at about 22:00, Port Elizabeth K9 unit received information about possible cable theft on the N2 freeway opposite the Baywest Mall. "On response, members met the crew from the NMBM Surveillance Unit, who were already monitoring the movement of the suspects." She said that approximately six suspects were busy stripping the cables from two light poles. "Sgt Volente Baatjies and her dog ‘Jack’ tactically approached the suspects through the dark dense bushes. As they neared the suspects, Sgt Baatjies instructed them to stand still however the suspects started fleeing in different directions," Col Naidu said. "Jack was released and he apprehended a 51 year old male. The street poles were damaged and about 10 metres of underground cable was found nearby. "The approximate value is R3000." She said that the suspect was detained on charges of theft and under the Criminal matters Amendment Act (tampering, damage theft of essential infrastructure). He is expected to appear in court on Monday. She added that in a separate incident, three housebreaking suspects were apprehended by the K9 unit and SAPS Mount Road members. "It is alleged that at about 03:30, on Friday morning, Mount Road police were patrolling in Cape Road when they noticed people inside a pizza shop," Col Naidu said. "When they stopped, the three males ran out. One suspect, aged 36 years, was immediately arrested while the other two managed to run away. "Back-up was requested and Sgt Volente Baatjies and Const Angelo Windvogel, from the K9 unit, responded with their dogs Jack, a German Shepherd, and Dorn, a Dutch Shepherd." In the last 8 months, Jack has apprehended 21 suspects. "The two suspects were spotted running into a yard in 6th Avenue and over a wall. When the two suspects ignored the warning to heed, Jack and Dorn were released and both suspects, aged 20 and 30 years old, were arrested," Col Naidu said. "All three suspects are detained on a charge of housebreaking and will appear in court on Monday." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 