 Port Elizabeth - The Department of Water and Sanitation says it has undertaken to drill boreholes in many Eastern Cape towns facing dire water shortages due to the current drought. The announcement was made by Minister of Human Settlement, Water and Sanitation, Lindiwe Sisulu, as she highlighted urgent measures to address water challenges in identified areas across the country, where dam levels have dropped alarmingly. "This follows the Department’s latest dam levels report, which indicates that some of the country’s water reservoirs are losing one percent of stored water week-on-week," said the Department's Sputnik Ratau. According to the report the levels have dropped from 73,3% in the same period last year to 60% this week, a 10% loss in 12 months. Ratau said scientific projections are that hot temperatures will persist until the end of the summer period, next year. "In addition, between October and mid-December 2019, the country will experience below-average rainfall that would be accompanied by hot temperatures thereby raising evaporation levels in the dams." Minister Sisulu noted that the interventions will include completing the construction of water projects, the refurbishment of dysfunctional boreholes in drought-stricken areas, assigning a team of specialists for rapid intervention in identified areas and addressing dysfunctional water works. She said the interventions were in line with the government’s New District Model of aligning integrated service delivery across the three spheres of government, within the next 18 months. "In Eastern Cape alone, the Department will drill and equip boreholes in drought-stricken Graaf-Reinet and bring Xonxa Dam in Queenstown online in order to supply water to the town," Ratau said. "Lusikisiki is earmarked for an increase of water supply by upgrading the local water treatment works. The construction of Zalu dam will be prioritized to relieve the current water challenges. "Similarly, the Department has sourced funds through its Regional Bulk Infrastructure Grant (RBIG) to facilitate the bulk supply of water and equipment of boreholes in Qwaqwa, Free State." He added that the area is facing water challenges after the dam level at Fika Patso has plummeted to 10%. Currently, local communities rely on water from boreholes while additional water supply projects are being constructed. "Other areas that are affected by water scarcity and that have been identified for intervention are Butterworth, Lusikisiki, Port Alfred and Alfred Nzo in the Eastern Cape; as well as Aggeneys in the Namakwa District in Northern Cape," Ratau described. "In Limpopo the areas include Tzaneen, Mogalakwena in Capricorn, Modimolle, Bela Bela, Thabazimbi and Polokwane. The Department confirms that water supply in Gauteng remains secured as the Integrated Vaal River System is fed by 14 rivers and contingency plans for the stabilizing of the system are in place." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 