 Port Elizabeth - News of the apparent murder of two elderly women at a retirement home has shocked residents in Port Elizabeth. The two women were found dead on Thursday morning at the St John Stella Londt Retirement Centre in Port Elizabeth. The women, aged 91 and 87 years old, were found in bed in separate rooms at the St John Stella Londt Retirement Centre and are believed to have been murdered on Wednesday night. Their bodies were only found by staff at the retirement home at around 5.45am on Thursday. Initial police investigations point to a housebreaking and robbery incident as both women’s hands and feet were bound and they had both been gagged. Puzzling police is that there was no sign of forced entry into the building, which is in in Sunridge Park, Port Elizabeth. It is now believed that the would-be robber-murderers probably entered the premises through an unlocked gate as well as an open security gate on the upper level of the main building in the complex. Meanwhile, Port Elizabeth police detectives were still on the scene, at the time of publishing, trying to comb the crime scene for clues of what happened and who was behind this gruesome murder. Port Elizabeth police have since identified the victims as 91-year-old Agnes Elaine Burns, originally from East London, and 87-year-old Rosemary Langton. Police expect a post-mortem to determine the exact cause of death. Still police believe, the robbers could have subdued Burns first - tying her up and ransacking her room, before they moved to Langton's room where the same happened. It was not immediately clear what had been stolen from the rooms. The St John Stella Londt Retirement Centre is part of the St Johns Group. The Group announced it will be sending a high-level delegation to the St John Stella Londt Retirement Centre to oversee steps to secure the retirement home and its residents. Trauma support will also be given to staff and residents following this incident. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 