 Port Elizabeth - An early morning raid at three houses in Zwide, Port Elizabeth, resulted in the arrest of five suspects and the seizure of electronic equipment and jewellery to the estimated amount of R200 000. "It is alleged that on18 September 2019, police recovered an abandoned white Toyota Quest in Walmer location, Port Elizabeth," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "This vehicle was implicated in a number of housebreakings in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro (Walmer, Summerstrand, Sunridge, Milpark Malabar, Bluewater Bay). "It was later established that the vehicle was a rented car." She said that through intensive and thorough investigations, the vehicle was positively linked to 14 housebreaking cases from June 2018 to September 2019. "The common modus operandi used was when doors were forced open with a crowbar." At about 06:00 on Tueday morning, a team of investigators swooped in on three houses and arrested the suspects and recovered the property. "Among the items recovered are five TV’s watches, jewellery boxes, cameras, two firearms (serial numbers filed off) and an iPad," said Col Naidu. "Police are appealing to anyone who may have been victims of a housebreaking or house robberies to contact D/W/O Shane Bosch on 079 508 9921. "Should one suspect that any of the items may belong to one, it is advisable to produce proof of ownership, if possible." She said that the suspects, aged between 29-50 years old, will be detained on charges of money laundering in contravention of section 6 of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA) 121 of 1998, possession of suspected stolen property, illegal possession of a firearm and illegal possession of ammunition. "They are expected to appear in court soon," Col Naidu. "Police are also urging communities to mark their property so that identification is made easier or to keep serial numbers of electronic equipment in a safe place." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 