 Port Elizabeth - Produced in good old Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape, COTi Chocolate Manufacturer’s Peanut Butter Max will make its way to the United States of America (USA) this week to be showcased at the acclaimed New York City Food & Wine festival (NYCWFF). Going into its 12th year, NYCWFF is widely recognized for offering 50,000 guests, including celebrity chefs and foodies galore, the chance to experience flavours, tastes and cuisines from all over the globe, served up by America’s most beloved television chefs - all in support of the fight to end hunger. The NYCWFF runs from October 10 to October 13, 2019. Peanut Butter Max, the world’s first peanut butter bar with zero-added sugar, hit SA shop shelves late in January and has been making phenomenal strides within the chocolate sector. COTi Manufacturer’s managing director, who is heading to New York this week, said there is nothing like Peanut Butter Max in the world. The bars make the claim of having “zero-added sugar” and not “sugar-free” due to ingredients such as milk containing natural sugars in the form of lactose. “I really would like to come back with a potential US distributor for the product. “Part of the visit also includes support from the South Africa Consulate General who will be setting up some meetings with potential distributors. “We will also be taken around the New York trade which I will be very interested to see and compare versus what we experience here in South Africa.” “Peanut butter is a particularly well-liked product in the US. In fact, the largest chocolate brand in the States, is peanut butter based. This means that we would already a have a consumer who enjoy eating peanut butter and chocolate. “What they haven’t had up until now, is to have something that is made with zeroadded sugar, which added to that, is a uniquely South African product." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  