 Port Elizabeth - Power utility Eskom will again implement Stage 2 rotational loadh shedding on Thursday from 9am until 11pm. It will be second consecutive day of load shedding in so many months.  #POWERALERT 2Date: 16 October 2019Stage 2 rotational loadshedding will continue tomorrow @CityPowerJhb@City_Ekurhuleni @CityofJoburgZA @CityTshwane @eThekwiniM @CityofCT @ewnupdates @eNCA @SABCNewsOnline @SAfmRadio @Radio702 @IOL @News24 @SAgovnews pic.twitter.com/lVTRUKC9FY Eskom on Wednesday said that the electricity system has been severely constrained this week. "As a result of the loss of additional generation, delays in the return to service of units that are on planned maintenance and limited diesel supply, it has become necessary to implement stage 2 rotational loadshedding from 09:00 until 23:00 in order to protect the power system from a total collapse," it described. "In the System Status Briefing of 4 September 2019 Eskom warned that in order to avoid loadshedding, unplanned breakdowns needed to be contained at below 9 500MW. "In the event generator breakdowns are experienced beyond 10 500MW, there will be high usage of emergency resources (diesel and pumped storage generators), which may lead to loadshedding if the supply constraints is sustained for a long duration." The power utility said that the severe supply constraint being experienced has come about due to high levels of unplanned breakdowns that have exceeded the 10 500MW limit. "The supply constraint is caused by, among others, five generating units that are unavailable due to boiler tube leaks. In addition, a conveyor belt supplying Medupi Power Station with coal failed on Saturday 12 October resulting in low volumes of coal being supplied to the power station thus limiting the generating capability to approximately half the station output," it described. "Due to the shortage of generating capacity from coal fired generation, the pumped storage and OCGT generators have been used extensively since Saturday, 12 October which has led to a decline in the dam levels and diesel tank levels. "We unreservedly apologise to South Africans for the negative impact this may have on them and want to assure the nation that we continue to work tirelessly to ensure security of energy supply." To assist us in these effort, we appeal to customers to continue to use electricity sparingly throughout the day: "Customers are advised to check their loadshedding schedules on the Eskom or municipal website," it added. "We will keep customers informed if there are any further changes to the power system." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One.  