 Mqanduli - Two male suspects, aged 24 and 60 years, are expected to appear before Mqanduli Magistrate's Court on Wednesday facing a charge of stock theft. "This arrest follows after an operation was conducted at Ntsitshana, Kwaaiman whereby one male suspect, aged 60 years, was found with suspected stolen sheep," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "Investigation continued as a result another 24-year-old male suspect was arrested. "They both will appear before Mqanduli Magistrate's Court on Wednesday facing a charge of stock theft. "Fifteen of those recovered sheep were identified by Ngqeleni complainants although a case was not yet registered." In another unrelated matter, on Wednesday last week, police followed up an information of cattle to be loaded at Macubeni Guba farms. "Patrols were arranged by Queenstown Stock Theft Units but in vain. A day later the same information was followed and it was positive as 12 cattle were loaded near Indwe," Capt Tonjeni said. "Police closed all the exit points of Indwe and managed to arrest the following, two male suspects, aged 35-52 years, and one female, aged 34 years. "They are all appearing at Lady Frere Magistrate's Court." On Saturday, a report was received from Lesotho stating that 104 goats had been stolen at Malimong location, in Qachasneck, and a follow-up was conducted whereby 78 goats were recovered locked in an unused stock post at Kallang. "The goats were positively identified by owner." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, commended the strides taken by all in the fight against stock theft. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 