 Mthatha - The Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, has found that the Inxuba Yethemba Local Municipality Executive Mayor Ray Shweni, other ANC Councillors and officials in the Inxuba Yethemba Local Municipality misappropriated public funds to the tune of R125 000 to transport ANC members to party political events in 2017. "I lodged a complaint with the Public Protector (PP) on 23 February 2017 and the final report was released on 9 September 2019," said Monde Desha Cllr - the Democratic Alliance's Caucus Leader in the Inxuba Yethemba Municipality. See the Public Protector's report here. Desha said that Adv Mkhwebane found the following actions to have resulted in non-compliance with the Municipality’s Supply Chain Management (SCM) Policy and the misappropriation of public funds: • R45 000 towards the transportation of 60 ANC supporters in order for them to attend the issuing of the ANC’s “January 8 Statement” at Orlando Stadium in Johannesburg in 2017; • R8 200 for hiring a luxury vehicle , Toyota Fortuner, to transport the Chief Whip of Inxuba Yethemba Municipal Council, Councillor Thembisile Bobo, and five other ANC members to the same event in Johannesburg; and • R72 000 to transport 180 ANC supporters to attend the Provincial Roadshow in Mthatha on the 15th of January 2017. He further said that Adv Mkhwebane, in her report, requested the following remedial action to be taken within 30 business of the date of her report: • The Speaker must take steps to ensure that Council establishes a special committee to investigate whether the conduct of the Mayor, relating to the procurement of transport, constitutes a breach of the Code of Conduct for Municipal Councillors in terms of the Municipal Structures Act (MSA); • The Municipal Manager must take action against officials involved in the procurement of transportation and against the former acting Municipal Manager, Mr Lulamile Jojiyasi, who approved the procurement of transportation; and • The Municipal Manager must, in terms of the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA), take action to recover irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure referred to in the report. "The DA will not rest until the Municipality takes action against Mayor Shweni and everyone implicated in the PP report and all public funds are recovered," Desha said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 