 East London - Mdantsane is set to propel into an economic thriving township that will take its rightful place in South Africa through its roads network infrastructure. This is according to Buffalo City Metro Executive Mayor, Xola Pakati, who was unveiling plans the Municipality has for the Mdantsane township during the Mayoral Imbizo held at NU 6 stadium. Pakati announced advanced Municipal plans on roads, electricity and economic investments. Pakati said the municipality has identified that the upgrading of roads in Mdantsane was the key to unlock the economy and create job opportunities. Speaking on the developments related to the townships main road, the Qumza Highway, Pakati said: “The Qumza Highway upgrade remains one of the decisive flagship programmes in the creation of an integrated public transport system in our City.” He said the Municipality was moving with speed with this project with the intention of recovering lost time. “Our contractor is on site and we have appointed 24 SMME companies as community subcontractors in this project, “he said. Pakati also revealed that the City was injecting R7 million for other road construction projects in the area.“We are also making a huge impact in the upgrade of our rural and we will be pending R33 million,” he said. He said the City had taken a conscious decision to invest in the purchasing of its own construction plant in order to build internal capacity He responded to the requests of residents of NU 5 saying: “When we were here in Mdantsane last year, residents of the ward complained regarding the pace of the bridge connecting NU 5 and NU 6. We can confidently report that he bridge has been completed and it will be handed over to the community soon” Pakati said they were also noting the complaints about shoddy workmanship about some of the works being carried out on the roads. These included the sidewalks or the community in Mbekweni and roads in NU 16. “We can confirm that the construction of a pedestrian bridge next to area 68 and 72 in ward 12. Concluding his remarks to a packed tent in the Imbizo, Pakati said: “The approach that I have taken since my election as an Executive Mayor is not to lie to people in order to receive momentary applause. The best way is to be honest about the challenges o that we design solutions together.” “I am very confident of the fact that our Municipality has achieved a lot in a short space of time. We have built roads and are still building them here in Mdantsane and surrounding areas. There is no denying that many projects can be seen but the urge to want more is understandable because the development interventions we are implanting come after hundreds of years of deliberate underdevelopment by apartheid and colonialism.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 