 Port Elizabeth - It is not surprising that discussions about the environment are becoming more prevalent and occurring in communities across the land, as public awareness over issues such as climate change made real by persistent droughts and unusual weather patterns. The Mandela Bay Development Agency along with various social partners are tapping into these conversations and initiatives in partnership with communities to seek sustainable and long-term solution that will benefit communities long into the future. Subsequent to the “Good Green Deed” programme launched earlier in the year by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, an initiative that promotes the maintenance of waste-free, dump free and clean communities, the MBDA, through the Helenvale Safety & Peace through Urban Upgrading (“SPUU”) programme today launched a recycling initiative in the Helenvale, in partnership with learners and parents from Helenvale Primary School. “The recycling initiative is part of a waste management intervention which aims to significantly reduce the amount of materials that end up in our waste streams, which means less waste is landing in the landfills or getting incinerated,” said Debbie Hendricks Head of Operations at the MBDA Hendricks added that recycling programs such as the Helenvale Recycling Campaign contribute to the overall health and well-being of a community. As part of its contribution, the MBDA provided recycling infrastructure such as trolleys, personal protective equipment, scales and materials to 20 recyclers – the majority of which are women-owned micro-recyclers. “This investment will help the community initiatives improve on their effectiveness of collecting recyclables and promote cleanliness within the Helenvale area which will also assist in improving their trading potential,” said Neil Campher, SPUU project team member. Helenvale Primary School has been identified as the recyclable drop-off point for recycling and will serve as a work area where recyclers will store, sort and trade their recyclable material. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 