 Port Elizabeth - The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Nelson Mandela Bay claims it has recently learned that six additional security officials have been "frivolously" added to Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani’s security detail. "Mayor Bobani previously only had two Close Protection Officers assigned to him and has been granted two more officials from the Department of Safety and Security," said Gustav Rautenbach Cllr - DA NMB Spokesperson for Safety and Security. "Furthermore, a Traffic Department vehicle with two officers and a Metro Police vehicle with two officers will also escort him from 08:00 to 16:00 every day. "This means that Mayor Bobani has 8 security officials with him at all time. "Removing Traffic Department and Metro Police vehicles and officers from the road to follow the Mayor around has cost implications." Rautenbach said that Traffic Officers are employed at a monthly salary of about R28 000, while Metro Police Officers earn about R18 000 per month. "These officials are now being paid for performing non-core functions. Both departments are understaffed and cannot afford to have fewer vehicles and officers on the road," he added. "Paying officers to provide a frivolous service to the Mayor is wasteful to say the least. "Mayor Bobani’s request highlights that he cares more for his own safety than for the safety of the residents." Rautenbach said that the DA has also been reliably informed that the relevant departments have not been provided with a risk analysis. "Such an analysis must be completed to ascertain if additional safety officers are needed to ensure the safety of the Mayor," he added. "I will now submit questions to the Municipality and request that a risk analysis, which should form the basis of the request for additional security, be provided." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 