 East London - The Eastern Cape Police Choir (ECPC) has once again proved itself that it is not just a choir, but one of the best choirs in the country following their stellar performance at the 2019 Old Mutual Choir festival in Bloemfontein. "Last year the competition was held at Makhanda and they came back home with the first position," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Thembinkosi Kinana. "This prestigious competition had two categories, the accompanied piece where the choir sing with a piano while the unaccompanied piece is without a piano, only voices. "The choir performed two songs namely, God of Light by Hayden and Amandla omthandazo by Christian Thanduxolo Ngqobe. On the accompanied category, ECPC took first position while on the unaccompanied, they took second position." Brig Kinana said that the Eastern Cape Police Choir is one of the best SAPS ambassadors, who also help interact with community when they are engaged in Social Crime Prevention activities, outreach and campaigns. "When they perform in important events within the police service and other important government events." Sergeant Kholekile Nonkeuse, who has been at the helm of the choir as conductor, said, “The competition was very tough, stiff and technical, but on the same vein it was a show of good musicianship.” He thanked the SAPS senior Management for their undying support as well as the choir members who sacrificed, displayed commitment and discipline throughout. According to Nonkeuse, Old Mutual Choir Festival is one of the best national choir competitions and is also rated according to (SADC), Southern African Developing Countries. Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga congratulated the choir for their recent win. “You are one of the best ambassadors and your work speaks for itself. Continue to make us proud and collect all the accolades. After all you come from the province of the legends. After all you come from the Eastern Cape, the province of the legends." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 