 Port Elizabeth - Crimes against women and children remain a priority for the South African Police Service, Port Elizabeth police said on Tuesday as they appealed to the community in Ikamvelihle to assist them with information that can assist them in tracing a murder and alleged rape suspect wanted in three separate cases. "In the first incident, on 16 February 2019, a 43-year-old woman was found semi-naked and murdered in a field near a primary school in NU8," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "It is alleged that on 15 February, at about 20:00, the woman was assisting a friend to babysit at a house in Ngcungcu Street. "At about 05:00, the victim left the house and her body was found three hours later. She was semi-naked and sustained several stab wounds to her neck." Col Naidu said that in the second incident, on 4 May 2019, the body of a 21-year-old woman was found in bushes in Addo Road in the Ramaphosa area. "On 2 May, in the evening, the victim was at a tavern in NU10 with family members. She remained behind when her family had already left. Her boyfriend then took her to his house and she spent the night with him." Col Naidu said that the following day, at about 11:00, he was walking her home when she met a woman that she acquainted in the tavern, the previous night. "Her boyfriend left her with the woman. Her badly bruised and semi-naked body was later found on 4 May. Police is urgently trying to locate this woman as she might provide vital information in the investigation." In the last incident, on 6 October 2019, at about 10:45, the partially decomposed body of a woman was found in a bushy area in the Ramaphosa area. "A community member alerted police to the stench emanating from the bushes. The body was found not far from where the second body was found in May 2019," Col Naidu said. "The woman is unknown and police is appealing to anyone, who may be looking for a woman, who has not returned home, to contact their local police. "In all cases, it is suspected that the women may have been raped. DNA results are still being awaited." Col Naidu said that police are urging women to be extra cautious and not to walk alone at night or engage in conversation with strangers. "Anyone who can assist with any information relating to the murders or a possible suspect is asked to contact D/Sgt Elton Tau at SAPS Ikamvelihle on 082 303 0432. All information is strictly confidential and callers have the right to remain anonymous." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 