 Port Elizabeth- Five suspects are expected in court on Monday after they were arrested by Port Elizabeth police in connection with the robbery and murder of two elderly women at the St John Stella Londt Retirement Centre in Port Elizabeth this month. Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, hailed the sterling efforts of the Mount Road Cluster Detective Trio Task Team and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation in Port Elizabeth (Hawks) for their incessant investigation of the double murders which took place at a retirement centre in Stella Londt Drive in Port Elizabeth. "It is alleged that on Thursday, 10/10 at about 05:45, staff found two elderly women murdered in separate rooms at a Retirement Centre in Stella Londt Drive in Port Elizabeth," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "It is further alleged that during the early hours of that morning, unknown number of suspects entered the premises through an unlocked door and trellie door on the upper level of the main building in the complex." Col Naidu said that the suspects entered the first room where they confronted Ms Agnes Elaine Burns, 91 years old. "She was found on the bed with her feet and hands tied and her mouth gagged. The room was ransacked. The suspects then entered another room further down the passage where they then confronted Ms Rosemary Langton (87). She, too was found with hands and feet tied and mouth gagged. Her room was also ransacked." Col Naidu said that police believe robbery to be the motive. "Kruger rands, elite watches, gold rings and a wedding ring with a precious stone as well as other jewellery and a cellphone was taken," she described. "The team of investigators led by the Mount Road Cluster Detective Head, Colonel Paul Orange, with the assistance of the Hawks and the National Prosecuting Authority, worked tirelessly throughout the days and nights in an attempt to make a breakthrough. "The team worked again from 10:00 on Thursday morning until Friday afternoon. "Between 01:00 and 02:00 on Friday morning, five suspects (one female and four males) were arrested within the Port Elizabeth area. "Some of the items were recovered from a suspect in the Kuyga area. "The female suspect, aged 34 is a carer at the retirement home and was on duty during the alleged murders." Col Naidu said that all suspects will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday. "A 30-year-old male and the female suspect will be charged for murder while the other three suspects aged 20, 27 and 33 will be appearing on charges of accessory to murder and money laundering." Lt Gen Ntshinga commended the investigating team for their dedication and tireless investigation. "Crimes against women, children and the elderly is a priority for the South African Police Service therefore their safety is of utmost importance. We will continue to work in close collaboration with the prosecuting authority to ensure a water tight case against those arrested," she said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 