 King Williams Town - Police efforts to fight crime across the Eastern Cape yielded results when 1 140 suspects were arrested for a variety of crimes over the past week in different towns. "During these various operations at least five hundred and fifty suspects were arrested because of police generated activities," said police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni. "The operations also made a huge impact in the fight against drug and alcohol abuse by closing illegal alcohol trade outlets and arresting at least, 50 suspects for murder, 11 for business robbery, 10 for illegal possession of ammunition, 70 for burglary, 29 for rape, 196 suspects for drug dealing and possession while 45 were arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs." He said that various outlets dealing in sale of alcohol were visited to monitor compliance to licence conditions. "Eighteen outlets were visited in total and 137 suspects were arrested for drinking in public place," Capt Tonjeni. "About 153 J534 fines were issued while 17 000 litres of alcohol were confiscated during the operation. "Dagga weighting 335 kg and Chrystal meth weighting 470 kg was also recovered." Capt Tonjeni said that Station Commanders were also deployed in East London and surrounding arrears tracing suspects, preventing and combatting crime through Operation Gijima Tsotsi. "Non-compliance to alcohol trading license conditions, alcohol abuse and illegal trade in alcohol have a negative impact on crime fighting. This is one of the reasons members were closing down all illegal shebeens." He added that at least 460 items of counterfeit goods that include 69 cellphones, 174 counterfeit CDs, electronic and audio-visual material were confiscated. "Eight suspected stolen vehicles were also confiscated while one suspected stolen vehicle was recovered in Buffalo Street namely a red Toyota Conquest. The vehicle was impounded and an enquiry opened for further investigation," Capt Tonjeni said. "In an effort to fight carrying of dangerous weapons in public, 16 knives were confiscated including a vehicle jamming device. 1 jamming device." Extending words of encouragement, Acting Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Major General Andre Swart, said, “Drugs and alcohol abuse continue to influence the rise of crime throughout the province and the innocent people get affected. "That is why we have to work smart through our Intelligence gathering and hit hard on drug dealers, runners, suppliers and the master mind behind these destructive drug selling and distribution operations. "We will heighten the fight against illegal trade in alcohol as we approach to festive season. We welcome the support from members of the community who continue to during show their undying support in our efforts to ensure public safety.” Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 