 Makhanda - A Mooiplaas man, Malibongwe Duba, who attempted to rape and murdered a 67-year-old granny was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder plus 10 years for attempted rape in the Makhanda High Court on Friday. "It is alleged that Duba, 27 years old, attempted to rape and stabbed the 67-year-old woman known to him from the same neighborhood to death on Saturday evening, 28 April 2018, at Sotho location, Mooiplaas, whilest she was on her way home," said police spokesperson, Captain Nkosikho Mzuku. "A case of murder and attempted rape was opened at Mooiplaas police station. "The investigating officer Warrant Officer Mnyazi took over the investigation." Capt Mzuku said that considering the fact that, it was very difficult to provide evidence against the accused in court, but the veteran investigator, Warrant Officer Mnyazi managed to collect the overwhelming evidence that actually helped the Judge to sentence the accused, Malibongwe Duba, to life imprisonment for murder and 10 years improvement for attempted rape. "Today, as the SAPS family, we hope that this sentencing will bring closure to the deceased family as we have eliminated another criminal from the streets," he added. "Furthermore, it will definitely instil the confidence and the trust our community has in the SAPS. "Crimes against women and children remain a priority to the South African Police Service management. "Those, who are perpetrators of these crimes must know that such act cannot be tolerated in our communities." Capt Mzuku said that the SAPS has prioritised and will continue to prioritise violence against women and children by ensuring that designated and experienced investigators deal with such cases. "Notable so that the decision to prioritise such cases is bearing fruits, we will continue to push for harsh sentences for those who commit such heinous crimes. Let us love and protect women and children." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. For news on the Western Cape click here. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visit Bargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married, Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visit Kids Connection. Enjoy food and travel, then visit Home Food and Travel. Need assistance with an online presence, visit Agency One. 